docs/docs/intro.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /
---

# Lightdash Docs

Connect Lightdash to your dbt project, add some metrics, then create and share your insights with your team. Here are some docs to walk you through it all 😄

---

## 🌟 Getting started

- **Setting up Lightdash**

  - [New to dbt?](/get-started/setup-lightdash/new-to-dbt.mdx)
  - [Lightdash CLI](/get-started/setup-lightdash/lightdash-cli.mdx)
  - [Self-host Lightdash](/get-started/setup-lightdash/install-lightdash.mdx)
  - [Connect a project](/get-started/setup-lightdash/connect-project.mdx)  

- **Developing in Lightdash**

  - [Create your first dimensions and metrics](/get-started/setup-lightdash/add-metrics.mdx)  

- **Exploring your data in Lightdash**

  - [Using Tables and the Explore view](/get-started/exploring-data/using-explores.md)
  - [Inviting your team + sharing insights](/get-started/exploring-data/sharing-insights.mdx)
  - [Creating dashboards](/get-started/exploring-data/dashboards.md)

## 🙋‍♀️ Troubleshooting and getting help

- [Contact us](/help-and-contact/contact/contact_info.md)
- [FAQs](/help-and-contact/faqs/faqs.md)

## 👩‍💻 Installation + operation

- [Install Lightdash](/get-started/setup-lightdash/install-lightdash.mdx)
- [Connect a project](/get-started/setup-lightdash/connect-project.mdx)
- [Deploy to Kubernetes](/guides/how-to-deploy-to-kubernetes.md)
- [Update Lightdash](/references/update-lightdash.md)
- [Create multiple projects](/guides/how-to-create-multiple-projects.md)

## 🏗 Building Tables

- [New to dbt?](/get-started/setup-lightdash/new-to-dbt.mdx)
- [Adding Tables to Lightdash](/guides/adding-tables-to-lightdash.mdx)
- [Adding dimensions to Lightdash](/guides/how-to-create-dimensions.md)
- [Adding metrics to Lightdash](/guides/how-to-create-metrics.mdx)
- [Syncing your dbt changes to Lightdash](/references/syncing_your_dbt_changes.md)
- [How to join tables](/guides/how-to-join-tables.md)
- [Formatting your fields](/guides/formatting-your-fields.md)

## 📈 Querying + visualizing your data

- [Using Tables and the Explore view](/get-started/exploring-data/using-explores.md)
- [Limiting your data using filters](/guides/limiting-data-using-filters.md#adding-filters-in-the-explore-view)
- [Adding table calculations in the Explore view](/guides/table-calculations/adding-table-calculations.mdx)
- [Visualizing your results](/guides/visualizing-your-results.mdx)

## 🎯 Dashboards

- [Creating dashboards](/get-started/exploring-data/dashboards.md)
- [Limiting the data in your dashboard with filters](/guides/limiting-data-using-filters.md#adding-filters-to-your-dashboard)
- [Interactive dashboards](/guides/interactive-dashboards.mdx)

## 👪 Users

- [Resetting your password](/guides/how-to-reset-your-password.md)

## 🔐 Permissions

- [User roles and permissions](/references/user_roles_and_permissions.md)

## 🎨 Configuring Lightdash

- [Customizing the appearance of your project](/guides/customizing-the-appearance-of-your-project.md)

## 🎓 Lightdash University: Best Practice

- [The Lightdash Way for data access](/best-practice/lightdash-way.md)
- [Planning your dashboard - the Who, What and How of dashboard building](/best-practice/planning-your-dashboard.md)

Commit message:

docs: updates getting started docs (#2587)
* updates getting started docs

* fixes page references

* improves intro docs

* updates add metrics

* updates new metrics doc

* adds tutorial to metrics doc

* fix links

* updates intro docs

* updates intro link

* updates homepage

* adds doc intro page

* fixes spacing on intro page

* fixes emojis

* fixes title

* fixes shell

* fix title

docs/docs/intro.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 1
slug: /
---

# Lightdash Docs

Connect Lightdash to your dbt project, add some metrics, then create and share your insights with your team. Here are some docs to walk you through it all 😄

---

## 🌟 Getting started tutorials

- [Setting up a new project](/get-started/setup-lightdash/intro)
- [Learning to explore data in Lightdash](/get-started/exploring-data/intro)

_Not sure which one to pick? Check out our [tutorial recommendations here](/get-started/intro)._

## 🙋‍♀️ Troubleshooting and getting help

- [Contact us](/help-and-contact/contact/contact_info.md)
- [FAQs](/help-and-contact/faqs/faqs.md)

## 👩‍💻 Installation + operation

- [Install the Lightdash CLI](/guides/how-to-install-the-lightdash-cli.mdx)
- [Install Lightdash](/get-started/setup-lightdash/install-lightdash.mdx)
- [Connect a project](/get-started/setup-lightdash/connect-project.mdx)
- [Deploy to Kubernetes](/guides/how-to-deploy-to-kubernetes.md)
- [Update Lightdash](/references/update-lightdash.md)
- [Create multiple projects](/guides/how-to-create-multiple-projects.md)

## 🏗 Building Tables

- [Get your dbt project Lightdash-ready](/get-started/setup-lightdash/lightdash-cli.mdx)
- [Adding Tables to Lightdash](/guides/adding-tables-to-lightdash.mdx)
- [Adding dimensions to Lightdash](/guides/how-to-create-dimensions.md)
- [Adding metrics to Lightdash](/guides/how-to-create-metrics.mdx)
- [Syncing your dbt changes to Lightdash](/references/syncing_your_dbt_changes.md)
- [How to join tables](/guides/how-to-join-tables.md)
- [Formatting your fields](/guides/formatting-your-fields.md)

## 📈 Querying + visualizing your data

- [Using Tables and the Explore view](/get-started/exploring-data/using-explores.md)
- [Limiting your data using filters](/guides/limiting-data-using-filters.md#adding-filters-in-the-explore-view)
- [Adding table calculations in the Explore view](/guides/table-calculations/adding-table-calculations.mdx)
- [Visualizing your results](/guides/visualizing-your-results.mdx)

## 🎯 Dashboards

- [Creating dashboards](/get-started/exploring-data/dashboards.md)
- [Limiting the data in your dashboard with filters](/guides/limiting-data-using-filters.md#adding-filters-to-your-dashboard)
- [Interactive dashboards](/guides/interactive-dashboards.mdx)

## 👪 Users

- [Resetting your password](/guides/how-to-reset-your-password.md)

## 🔐 Permissions

- [User roles and permissions](/references/user_roles_and_permissions.md)

## 🎨 Configuring Lightdash

- [Customizing the appearance of your project](/guides/customizing-the-appearance-of-your-project.md)

## 🎓 Lightdash University: Best Practice

- [The Lightdash Way for data access](/best-practice/lightdash-way.md)
- [Planning your dashboard - the Who, What and How of dashboard building](/best-practice/planning-your-dashboard.md)
