.github/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Lightdash

First off, thanks for taking the time to contribute! ❤️

All types of contributions are encouraged and valued. See the [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents) for different ways
to help and details about how this project handles them. Please make sure to read the relevant section before making
your contribution. It will make it a lot easier for us maintainers and smooth out the experience for all involved. The
community looks forward to your contributions. 🎉

> And if you like the project, but just don't have time to contribute, that's fine. There are other easy ways to support
> the project and show your appreciation, which we would also be very happy about:
>
> - Join [the community](https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash/discussions)
> - Star the project
> - Tweet about it
> - Refer this project in your project's readme
> - Mention the project at local meetups and tell your friends/colleagues

## Table of Contents

- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [I Have a Question](#i-have-a-question)
- [I Want To Contribute](#i-want-to-contribute)
    - [Reporting Bugs](#reporting-bugs)
    - [Suggesting Enhancements](#suggesting-enhancements)
- [Your First Pull Request](#your-first-pull-request)
- [Sending a Pull Request](#sending-a-pull-request)
- [Setup Development Environment](#setup-development-environment)
- [Join The Project Team](#join-the-project-team)

## Code of Conduct

This project and everyone participating in it is governed by the
[Lightdash Code of Conduct](https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash/blob/main/.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
By participating, you are expected to uphold this code. Please report unacceptable behavior
to <support@lightdash.com>.

## I Have a Question

> If you want to ask a question, we assume that you have read the available [Documentation](https://docs.lightdash.com).

Before you ask a question, it is best to search for existing [Issues](https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash/issues)
that might help you. In case you have found a suitable issue and still need clarification, you can write your question
in this issue. It is also advisable to search the internet for answers first.

If you then still feel the need to ask a question and need clarification, we recommend the following:

- Open an [Issue](https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash/issues/new).
- Provide as much context as you can about what you're running into.
- Provide project and platform versions (nodejs, npm, etc), depending on what seems relevant.

We will then take care of the issue as soon as possible.

## I Want To Contribute

> ### Legal Notice
>
> When contributing to this project, you must agree that you have authored 100% of the content, that you have the
> necessary rights to the content and that the content you contribute may be provided under the project license.

### Reporting Bugs

#### Before Submitting a Bug Report

A good bug report shouldn't leave others needing to chase you up for more information. Therefore, we ask you to
investigate carefully, collect information and describe the issue in detail in your report. Please complete the
following steps in advance to help us fix any potential bug as fast as possible.

- Make sure that you are using the latest version.
- Determine if your bug is really a bug and not an error on your side e.g. using incompatible environment
  components/versions (Make sure that you have read the [documentation](https://docs.lightdash.com). If you are looking
  for support, you might want to check [this section](#i-have-a-question)).
- To see if other users have experienced (and potentially already solved) the same issue you are having, check if there
  is not already a bug report existing for your bug or error in
  the [bug tracker](https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash/issues?q=label%3Abug).
- Also make sure to search the internet (including Stack Overflow) to see if users outside of the GitHub community have
  discussed the issue.
- Collect information about the bug:
    - Stack trace (Traceback)
    - OS, Platform and Version (Windows, Linux, macOS, x86, ARM)
    - Version of the interpreter, compiler, SDK, runtime environment, package manager, depending on what seems relevant.
    - Possibly your input and the output
    - Can you reliably reproduce the issue? And can you also reproduce it with older versions?

#### How Do I Submit a Good Bug Report?

> You must never report security related issues, vulnerabilities or bugs to the issue tracker, or elsewhere in public.
> Instead sensitive bugs must be sent by email to <security@lightdash.com>.

<!-- We may add a PGP key to allow the messages to be sent encrypted as well. -->

We use GitHub issues to track bugs and errors. If you run into an issue with the project:

- Open an [Issue](https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash/issues/new). (Since we can't be sure at this point whether it
  is a bug or not, we ask you not to talk about a bug yet and not to label the issue.)
- Explain the behavior you would expect and the actual behavior.
- Please provide as much context as possible and describe the *reproduction steps* that someone else can follow to
  recreate the issue on their own. This usually includes your code. For good bug reports you should isolate the problem
  and create a reduced test case.
- Provide the information you collected in the previous section.

Once it's filed:

- The project team will label the issue accordingly.
- A team member will try to reproduce the issue with your provided steps. If there are no reproduction steps or no
  obvious way to reproduce the issue, the team will ask you for those steps and mark the issue as `needs-repro`. Bugs
  with the `needs-repro` tag will not be addressed until they are reproduced.
- If the team is able to reproduce the issue, it will be marked `needs-fix`, as well as possibly other tags (such
  as `critical`), and the issue will be left to be [implemented by someone](#your-first-pull-request).

### Suggesting Enhancements

This section guides you through submitting an enhancement suggestion for Lightdash, **including completely new features
and minor improvements to existing functionality**. Following these guidelines will help maintainers and the community
to understand your suggestion and find related suggestions.

#### Before Submitting an Enhancement

- Make sure that you are using the latest version.
- Read the [documentation](https://docs.lightdash.com) carefully and find out if the functionality is already covered,
  maybe by an individual configuration.
- Perform a [search](https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash/issues) to see if the enhancement has already been
  suggested. If it has, add a comment to the existing issue instead of opening a new one.
- Find out whether your idea fits with the scope and aims of the project. It's up to you to make a strong case to
  convince the project's developers of the merits of this feature. Keep in mind that we want features that will be
  useful to the majority of our users and not just a small subset.

#### How Do I Submit a Good Enhancement Suggestion?

Enhancement suggestions are tracked as [GitHub issues](https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash/issues).

- Use a **clear and descriptive title** for the issue to identify the suggestion.
- Provide a **step-by-step description of the suggested enhancement** in as many details as possible.
- **Describe the current behavior** and **explain which behavior you expected to see instead** and why. At this point
  you can also tell which alternatives do not work for you.
- You may want to **include screenshots and animated GIFs** which help you demonstrate the steps or point out the part
  which the suggestion is related to.
- **Explain why this enhancement would be useful** to most Lightdash users. You may also want to point out the other
  projects that solved it better and which could serve as inspiration.

## Your First Pull Request

Working on your first Pull Request? You can learn how from this free video series:

[How to Contribute to an Open Source Project on GitHub](https://egghead.io/courses/how-to-contribute-to-an-open-source-project-on-github)

To help you get your feet wet and get you familiar with our contribution process, we have a list
of [good first issues](https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22%F0%9F%99%8B+good+first+issue%22)
that contain changes that have a relatively limited scope. This label means that there is already a working solution to
the issue in the discussion section. Therefore, it is a great place to get started.

Pull requests working on other issues or completely new problems may take a bit longer to review when they don't fit
into our current development cycle.

If you decide to fix an issue, please be sure to check the comment thread in case somebody is already working on a fix.
If nobody is working on it at the moment, please leave a comment stating that you have started to work on it so other
people don't accidentally duplicate your effort.

If somebody claims an issue but doesn't follow up for more than a week, it's fine to take it over but you should still
leave a comment.
If there has been no activity on the issue for 7 to 14 days, it is safe to assume that nobody is working on it.

## Sending a Pull Request

Lightdash is a community project, so Pull Requests are always welcome, but, before working on a large change, it is best
to open an issue first to discuss it with the maintainers.

When in doubt, keep your Pull Requests small. To give a Pull Request the best chance of getting accepted, don't bundle
more than one feature or bug fix per Pull Request. It's often best to create two smaller Pull Requests than one big one.

1. Fork the repository.
2. Clone the fork to your local machine and add upstream remote:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/<your username>/lightdash.git
cd lightdash
git remote add upstream https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash.git
```

<!-- #default-branch-switch -->

3. Synchronize your local `main` branch with the upstream one:

```sh
git checkout main
git pull upstream main
```

4. Install the dependencies with yarn (npm isn't supported):

```sh
yarn install
```

5. Create a new topic branch:

```sh
git checkout -b my-topic-branch
```

6. Make changes, commit and push to your fork:

```sh
git push -u origin HEAD
```

7. Go to [the repository](https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash/pulls) and make a Pull Request.

The core team is monitoring for Pull Requests. We will review your Pull Request and either merge it, request changes to
it, or close it with an explanation.

#### Commit & Pull Request Naming Conventions

We follow the [conventional commit](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) standard.

```
<type>[optional scope]: <description>
```

E.g:

```
feat: add table calculations
fix: remove infinite loop during login
docs: add page about metrics
```

You can see all
the [supported types here](https://github.com/commitizen/conventional-commit-types/blob/v3.0.0/index.json).

#### Merge Strategy

We use `squash & merge` to keep the main branch history clean.

#### Styleguides

Our styleguides should be enforced via a pre-commit hook that runs prettier & eslint.
The reviewers can still request adhoc changes for situations that haven't been experienced before.

## Setup Development Environment

#### using Github Codespaces / VS Code Remote Containers

The fastest way to setup a development environment is to use Github Codespaces or VS Code Remote Containers.
This provides:

* All dependencies
* A postgres database for development
* A sample dbt project
* A pre-configured code editor

To get started:

* in Github [create a codespace](https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/developing-in-codespaces/creating-a-codespace)
* in VS
  Code [install the remote containers extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers)

Once connected run the following commands in the VS Code terminal:

```shell
# Setup the database
yarn workspace backend migrate
yarn workspace backend seed

# Run Lightdash frontend and backend in dev mode
yarn dev
```

#### using Docker compose

Alternatively you can create a developer environment using docker compose:

```shell
# Clone the Lightdash repo
git clone https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash

# Update submodules
git submodule update --init --recursive

# Create docker containers
Note: before the next step make sure your docker has 4GB of memory ( Docker -> settings -> resources ) you should be able to manipulate the values here.

docker compose -p lightdash-app -f docker/docker-compose.dev.yml --env-file .env up --detach --remove-orphans
```

When ready, access the development container and run these commands:

```shell
# Connect to container
docker exec -it lightdash-app-lightdash-dev-1 bash

# Skip puppeteer download
PUPPETEER_SKIP_DOWNLOAD=true

# Install dependencies & build common package
./scripts/build.sh

# Setup dbt
./scripts/seed-jaffle.sh

# Setup the database
./scripts/migrate.sh
./scripts/seed-lightdash.sh

# Run Lightdash frontend and backend in dev mode
yarn dev # http://localhost:3000

# Log in dev mode
When navigating to http://localhost:3000 you will be prompt to the login page, you can use our demo login details:

Username: demo@lightdash.com
Password: demo_password!

# Or run in production mode
# yarn build
# yarn start # http://localhost:8080
```

Notes:

- If you change files inside `/packages/common` you should run `yarn common-build` before `yarn dev`
- If you change files inside `/packages/warehouses` you should run `yarn warehouses-build` before `yarn dev`
- If you rename files the container might not recognise the changes. To fix this, stop the containers and start again.

When you want to stop:

```shell
docker compose -p lightdash-app -f docker/docker-compose.dev.yml --env-file .env stop
```

When you want to start:

```shell
docker compose -p lightdash-app -f docker/docker-compose.dev.yml --env-file .env start
```

#### Setup Development Environment without Docker

To setup Development Environment without Docker you need following pre-requisits before running Lightdash:

- node 14.x <= version <= 16.x
- yarn
- postgres
- dbt

eg. on MacOS you can follow this instructions:

```shell
#1 install brew (https://brew.sh)
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"

#2 install nvm (https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm#troubleshooting-on-macos)
brew update 
brew install nvm

#3 install node 16x using NVM (https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm)
nvm install v16.17.0
nvm alias default v16.17.0

#4 install postgres (https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Homebrew)
brew install postgresql@14
brew services start postgresql@14

#5 install dbt (https://docs.getdbt.com/dbt-cli/install/homebrew)
brew install dbt-labs/dbt/dbt-postgres

#6 install packages
yarn

#7 clone the repo and open it in your IDE
git clone https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash.git

#8 create `.env.local` and override any variables you need to change from `.env`
touch .env.local
open .env.local -t

# here is a sample content of the `.env.local` file
PGHOST=localhost
PGPORT=5432
PGUSER=pg_user *OR* machine username if no prior postgres set up
PGPASSWORD=pg_password *OR* blank if no prior postgres set up
PGDATABASE=postgres
DBT_DEMO_DIR=/*path*/*to*/lightdash/project/examples/full-jaffle-shop-demo
LIGHTDASH_CONFIG_FILE=/*path*/*to*/lightdash/lightdash.yml

#9 Update submodules
git submodule update --init --recursive

#10 build / migrate / seed
yarn load:env ./scripts/build.sh
yarn load:env ./scripts/seed-jaffle.sh
yarn load:env ./scripts/migrate.sh
yarn load:env ./scripts/seed-lightdash.sh

# run
yarn load:env yarn dev
```

> ⚠️ you can add env variables to your system and ignore running `yarn load:env` before each command

#### How to run unit tests

```shell
# Prepare dependencies
yarn install
yarn common-build
yarn warehouses-build

# Run unit tests
yarn test
```

#### How to run e2e tests

Before running e2e tests make sure you're running the app locally.

```shell
# Prepare dependencies
yarn install
yarn common-build
yarn warehouses-build

# run cypress in interactive mode
yarn e2e-open

# or run cypress in cli mode
yarn e2e-run
```

Note:

- Edit `packages/e2e/cypress.json` if you're running Lightdash on a different domain/port than `http://localhost:8080`

#### How to check code quality

```shell
yarn lint
yarn format
```

## Join The Lightdash Team

If you are interested in joining our team, check
our [job board](https://www.notion.so/gethubble/Job-Board-a2c7d872794b45deb7b76ad68701d750)!

## Attribution

This guide is based on the **contributing-gen**. [Make your own](https://github.com/bttger/contributing-gen)!

Commit message:

refactor: use tsoa for share routes

.github/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Lightdash

First off, thanks for taking the time to contribute! ❤️

All types of contributions are encouraged and valued. See the [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents) for different ways
to help and details about how this project handles them. Please make sure to read the relevant section before making
your contribution. It will make it a lot easier for us maintainers and smooth out the experience for all involved. The
community looks forward to your contributions. 🎉

> And if you like the project, but just don't have time to contribute, that's fine. There are other easy ways to support
> the project and show your appreciation, which we would also be very happy about:
>
> - Join [the community](https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash/discussions)
> - Star the project
> - Tweet about it
> - Refer this project in your project's readme
> - Mention the project at local meetups and tell your friends/colleagues

## Table of Contents

- [Code of Conduct](#code-of-conduct)
- [I Have a Question](#i-have-a-question)
- [I Want To Contribute](#i-want-to-contribute)
    - [Reporting Bugs](#reporting-bugs)
    - [Suggesting Enhancements](#suggesting-enhancements)
- [Your First Pull Request](#your-first-pull-request)
- [Sending a Pull Request](#sending-a-pull-request)
- [Setup Development Environment](#setup-development-environment)
- [Join The Project Team](#join-the-project-team)

## Code of Conduct

This project and everyone participating in it is governed by the
[Lightdash Code of Conduct](https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash/blob/main/.github/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
By participating, you are expected to uphold this code. Please report unacceptable behavior
to <support@lightdash.com>.

## I Have a Question

> If you want to ask a question, we assume that you have read the available [Documentation](https://docs.lightdash.com).

Before you ask a question, it is best to search for existing [Issues](https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash/issues)
that might help you. In case you have found a suitable issue and still need clarification, you can write your question
in this issue. It is also advisable to search the internet for answers first.

If you then still feel the need to ask a question and need clarification, we recommend the following:

- Open an [Issue](https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash/issues/new).
- Provide as much context as you can about what you're running into.
- Provide project and platform versions (nodejs, npm, etc), depending on what seems relevant.

We will then take care of the issue as soon as possible.

## I Want To Contribute

> ### Legal Notice
>
> When contributing to this project, you must agree that you have authored 100% of the content, that you have the
> necessary rights to the content and that the content you contribute may be provided under the project license.

### Reporting Bugs

#### Before Submitting a Bug Report

A good bug report shouldn't leave others needing to chase you up for more information. Therefore, we ask you to
investigate carefully, collect information and describe the issue in detail in your report. Please complete the
following steps in advance to help us fix any potential bug as fast as possible.

- Make sure that you are using the latest version.
- Determine if your bug is really a bug and not an error on your side e.g. using incompatible environment
  components/versions (Make sure that you have read the [documentation](https://docs.lightdash.com). If you are looking
  for support, you might want to check [this section](#i-have-a-question)).
- To see if other users have experienced (and potentially already solved) the same issue you are having, check if there
  is not already a bug report existing for your bug or error in
  the [bug tracker](https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash/issues?q=label%3Abug).
- Also make sure to search the internet (including Stack Overflow) to see if users outside of the GitHub community have
  discussed the issue.
- Collect information about the bug:
    - Stack trace (Traceback)
    - OS, Platform and Version (Windows, Linux, macOS, x86, ARM)
    - Version of the interpreter, compiler, SDK, runtime environment, package manager, depending on what seems relevant.
    - Possibly your input and the output
    - Can you reliably reproduce the issue? And can you also reproduce it with older versions?

#### How Do I Submit a Good Bug Report?

> You must never report security related issues, vulnerabilities or bugs to the issue tracker, or elsewhere in public.
> Instead sensitive bugs must be sent by email to <security@lightdash.com>.

<!-- We may add a PGP key to allow the messages to be sent encrypted as well. -->

We use GitHub issues to track bugs and errors. If you run into an issue with the project:

- Open an [Issue](https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash/issues/new). (Since we can't be sure at this point whether it
  is a bug or not, we ask you not to talk about a bug yet and not to label the issue.)
- Explain the behavior you would expect and the actual behavior.
- Please provide as much context as possible and describe the *reproduction steps* that someone else can follow to
  recreate the issue on their own. This usually includes your code. For good bug reports you should isolate the problem
  and create a reduced test case.
- Provide the information you collected in the previous section.

Once it's filed:

- The project team will label the issue accordingly.
- A team member will try to reproduce the issue with your provided steps. If there are no reproduction steps or no
  obvious way to reproduce the issue, the team will ask you for those steps and mark the issue as `needs-repro`. Bugs
  with the `needs-repro` tag will not be addressed until they are reproduced.
- If the team is able to reproduce the issue, it will be marked `needs-fix`, as well as possibly other tags (such
  as `critical`), and the issue will be left to be [implemented by someone](#your-first-pull-request).

### Suggesting Enhancements

This section guides you through submitting an enhancement suggestion for Lightdash, **including completely new features
and minor improvements to existing functionality**. Following these guidelines will help maintainers and the community
to understand your suggestion and find related suggestions.

#### Before Submitting an Enhancement

- Make sure that you are using the latest version.
- Read the [documentation](https://docs.lightdash.com) carefully and find out if the functionality is already covered,
  maybe by an individual configuration.
- Perform a [search](https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash/issues) to see if the enhancement has already been
  suggested. If it has, add a comment to the existing issue instead of opening a new one.
- Find out whether your idea fits with the scope and aims of the project. It's up to you to make a strong case to
  convince the project's developers of the merits of this feature. Keep in mind that we want features that will be
  useful to the majority of our users and not just a small subset.

#### How Do I Submit a Good Enhancement Suggestion?

Enhancement suggestions are tracked as [GitHub issues](https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash/issues).

- Use a **clear and descriptive title** for the issue to identify the suggestion.
- Provide a **step-by-step description of the suggested enhancement** in as many details as possible.
- **Describe the current behavior** and **explain which behavior you expected to see instead** and why. At this point
  you can also tell which alternatives do not work for you.
- You may want to **include screenshots and animated GIFs** which help you demonstrate the steps or point out the part
  which the suggestion is related to.
- **Explain why this enhancement would be useful** to most Lightdash users. You may also want to point out the other
  projects that solved it better and which could serve as inspiration.

## Your First Pull Request

Working on your first Pull Request? You can learn how from this free video series:

[How to Contribute to an Open Source Project on GitHub](https://egghead.io/courses/how-to-contribute-to-an-open-source-project-on-github)

To help you get your feet wet and get you familiar with our contribution process, we have a list
of [good first issues](https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22%F0%9F%99%8B+good+first+issue%22)
that contain changes that have a relatively limited scope. This label means that there is already a working solution to
the issue in the discussion section. Therefore, it is a great place to get started.

Pull requests working on other issues or completely new problems may take a bit longer to review when they don't fit
into our current development cycle.

If you decide to fix an issue, please be sure to check the comment thread in case somebody is already working on a fix.
If nobody is working on it at the moment, please leave a comment stating that you have started to work on it so other
people don't accidentally duplicate your effort.

If somebody claims an issue but doesn't follow up for more than a week, it's fine to take it over but you should still
leave a comment.
If there has been no activity on the issue for 7 to 14 days, it is safe to assume that nobody is working on it.

## Sending a Pull Request

Lightdash is a community project, so Pull Requests are always welcome, but, before working on a large change, it is best
to open an issue first to discuss it with the maintainers.

When in doubt, keep your Pull Requests small. To give a Pull Request the best chance of getting accepted, don't bundle
more than one feature or bug fix per Pull Request. It's often best to create two smaller Pull Requests than one big one.

1. Fork the repository.
2. Clone the fork to your local machine and add upstream remote:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/<your username>/lightdash.git
cd lightdash
git remote add upstream https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash.git
```

<!-- #default-branch-switch -->

3. Synchronize your local `main` branch with the upstream one:

```sh
git checkout main
git pull upstream main
```

4. Install the dependencies with yarn (npm isn't supported):

```sh
yarn install
```

5. Create a new topic branch:

```sh
git checkout -b my-topic-branch
```

6. Make changes, commit and push to your fork:

```sh
git push -u origin HEAD
```

7. Go to [the repository](https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash/pulls) and make a Pull Request.

The core team is monitoring for Pull Requests. We will review your Pull Request and either merge it, request changes to
it, or close it with an explanation.

#### Commit & Pull Request Naming Conventions

We follow the [conventional commit](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/) standard.

```
<type>[optional scope]: <description>
```

E.g:

```
feat: add table calculations
fix: remove infinite loop during login
docs: add page about metrics
```

You can see all
the [supported types here](https://github.com/commitizen/conventional-commit-types/blob/v3.0.0/index.json).

#### Merge Strategy

We use `squash & merge` to keep the main branch history clean.

#### Styleguides

Our styleguides should be enforced via a pre-commit hook that runs prettier & eslint.
The reviewers can still request adhoc changes for situations that haven't been experienced before.

## Setup Development Environment

#### using Github Codespaces / VS Code Remote Containers

The fastest way to setup a development environment is to use Github Codespaces or VS Code Remote Containers.
This provides:

* All dependencies
* A postgres database for development
* A sample dbt project
* A pre-configured code editor

To get started:

* in Github [create a codespace](https://docs.github.com/en/codespaces/developing-in-codespaces/creating-a-codespace)
* in VS
  Code [install the remote containers extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode-remote.remote-containers)

Once connected run the following commands in the VS Code terminal:

```shell
# Setup the database
yarn workspace backend migrate
yarn workspace backend seed

# Run Lightdash frontend and backend in dev mode
yarn dev
```

#### using Docker compose

Alternatively you can create a developer environment using docker compose:

```shell
# Clone the Lightdash repo
git clone https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash

# Update submodules
git submodule update --init --recursive

# Create docker containers
Note: before the next step make sure your docker has 4GB of memory ( Docker -> settings -> resources ) you should be able to manipulate the values here.

docker compose -p lightdash-app -f docker/docker-compose.dev.yml --env-file .env up --detach --remove-orphans
```

When ready, access the development container and run these commands:

```shell
# Connect to container
docker exec -it lightdash-app-lightdash-dev-1 bash

# Skip puppeteer download
PUPPETEER_SKIP_DOWNLOAD=true

# Install dependencies & build common package
./scripts/build.sh

# Setup dbt
./scripts/seed-jaffle.sh

# Setup the database
./scripts/migrate.sh
./scripts/seed-lightdash.sh

# Run Lightdash frontend and backend in dev mode
yarn dev # http://localhost:3000

# Log in dev mode
When navigating to http://localhost:3000 you will be prompt to the login page, you can use our demo login details:

Username: demo@lightdash.com
Password: demo_password!

# Or run in production mode
# yarn build
# yarn start # http://localhost:8080
```

Notes:

- If you change files inside `/packages/common` you should run `yarn common-build` before `yarn dev`
- If you change files inside `/packages/warehouses` you should run `yarn warehouses-build` before `yarn dev`
- If you rename files the container might not recognise the changes. To fix this, stop the containers and start again.

When you want to stop:

```shell
docker compose -p lightdash-app -f docker/docker-compose.dev.yml --env-file .env stop
```

When you want to start:

```shell
docker compose -p lightdash-app -f docker/docker-compose.dev.yml --env-file .env start
```

#### Setup Development Environment without Docker

To setup Development Environment without Docker you need following pre-requisits before running Lightdash:

- node 14.x <= version <= 16.x
- yarn
- postgres
- dbt

eg. on MacOS you can follow this instructions:

```shell
#1 install brew (https://brew.sh)
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"

#2 install nvm (https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm#troubleshooting-on-macos)
brew update 
brew install nvm

#3 install node 16x using NVM (https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm)
nvm install v16.17.0
nvm alias default v16.17.0

#4 install postgres (https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Homebrew)
brew install postgresql@14
brew services start postgresql@14

#5 install dbt (https://docs.getdbt.com/dbt-cli/install/homebrew)
brew install dbt-labs/dbt/dbt-postgres

#6 install packages
yarn

#7 clone the repo and open it in your IDE
git clone https://github.com/lightdash/lightdash.git

#8 create `.env.local` and override any variables you need to change from `.env`
touch .env.local
open .env.local -t

# here is a sample content of the `.env.local` file
PGHOST=localhost
PGPORT=5432
PGUSER=pg_user *OR* machine username if no prior postgres set up
PGPASSWORD=pg_password *OR* blank if no prior postgres set up
PGDATABASE=postgres
DBT_DEMO_DIR=/*path*/*to*/lightdash/project/examples/full-jaffle-shop-demo
LIGHTDASH_CONFIG_FILE=/*path*/*to*/lightdash/lightdash.yml

#9 Update submodules
git submodule update --init --recursive

#10 build / migrate / seed
yarn load:env ./scripts/build.sh
yarn load:env ./scripts/seed-jaffle.sh
yarn load:env ./scripts/migrate.sh
yarn load:env ./scripts/seed-lightdash.sh

# run
yarn load:env yarn dev
```

> ⚠️ you can add env variables to your system and ignore running `yarn load:env` before each command

#### How to run unit tests

```shell
# Prepare dependencies
yarn install
yarn common-build
yarn warehouses-build

# Run unit tests
yarn test
```

#### How to run e2e tests

Before running e2e tests make sure you're running the app locally.

```shell
# Prepare dependencies
yarn install
yarn common-build
yarn warehouses-build

# run cypress in interactive mode
yarn e2e-open

# or run cypress in cli mode
yarn e2e-run
```

Note:

- Edit `packages/e2e/cypress.json` if you're running Lightdash on a different domain/port than `http://localhost:8080`

#### How to check code quality

```shell
yarn lint
yarn format
```

#### Developing API endpoints

API endpoints are written in controllers, which are located in `packages/backend/src/controllers`. Controllers are 
then registered in `packages/backend/src/index.ts` but in order to be made available you'll need to regenerate the 
`routes.ts` file by executing:

```shell
yarn workspace backend run tsoa routes
```

## Join The Lightdash Team

If you are interested in joining our team, check
our [job board](https://www.notion.so/gethubble/Job-Board-a2c7d872794b45deb7b76ad68701d750)!

## Attribution

This guide is based on the **contributing-gen**. [Make your own](https://github.com/bttger/contributing-gen)!
