docs/docs/get-started/setup-lightdash/add-metrics.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 5
sidebar_label: Create your first metrics
---

# Create your first metrics

import DataQuestion from './assets/data-question.svg';

Metrics are defined in your dbt project alongside your dbt model properties.

* **Dimensions** are used to **segment data** in your Tables.
* **Metrics** are used to **perform calculations** on your Tables.

## Example

Say we're running an ecommerce business, we probably have a table containing all order data. We might want to
ask:

<div style={{textAlign: 'center', paddingBottom: 30, paddingTop: 10}}>
  <DataQuestion width="70%"/>
</div>

This question can be answered using a single metric "the total number of unique orders" and a single dimension for
splitting the metric by "status of order". In Lightdash you'd get the following chart:

![two metrics on a bar chart](./assets/metric-on-bar-chart.png)

To learn more about why we use dimensions and metrics in Lightdash, [read the Lightdash approach to BI](/best-practice/lightdash-way).

## 1. Add a metric to your project

Metrics are defined in your dbt project files along with your dimensions and dbt model properties.

If dimensions segment your data into groups, metrics calculate interesting statistics for those groups.

For example, once we've used the `status` dimension to split orders by their `status`, we may want to know the
"Total number of orders" or the "Total sales" of the orders. These calculations are metrics:

```yaml
# schema.yml
version: 2
models:
  - name: "orders"
    columns:
      - name: "status"
      - name: "order_id"
        meta:
          metrics:
            total_order_count:
              type: count
```
You can [see the full list of metric types](https://docs.lightdash.com/references/metrics) that you can use in your Lightdash project.

### Ggo ahead and try adding a metric to a model in your project. 

We'd suggest starting out simple, like a `count` for a primary key in your table.

## 2. Preview your changes using `lightdash preview`

Once you've added a metric to your dbt model, you might want to check to make sure that it's working the way you'd expect. This is where `lightdash preview` comes in handy. 

**Developer previews** are temporary Lightdash projects where you can safely experiment with your metrics, dimensions and charts 
without affecting your production project.

### To build a preview, you'll need to authenticate yourself in the Lightdash CLI. 

There are two ways of doing this:

1. [Run **Login command**](#login) to use your email and password.
2. [Via **environment variables**](#environment-variables) to use a personal access token and help automate CI&CD pipelines. _(Note that if you are using Google SSO login you should authenticate via environment variables.)_


---

#### Login command

To login to your Lightdash instance run the following command and provide your login email and password:

```shell
lightdash login https://my-lightdash.domain.com
```

where `https://my-lightdash.domain.com` is the address for your running Lightdash instance. For example Lightdash 
cloud users would type `lightdash login https://app.lightdash.cloud`.

---

#### Environment variables

You can use the following environment variables to authenticate yourself on each command:

- **LIGHTDASH_API_KEY** a personal access token you can generate in the app under the user settings
- **LIGHTDASH_URL** address for your running Lightdash instance

Example:

```shell
LIGHTDASH_API_KEY=946fedb74003405646867dcacf1ad345 LIGHTDASH_URL="https://app.lightdash.cloud" lightdash preview
```

---

### Choose which project you want to preview

When you login you'll be asked to set an active project. The active project is the dbt project you'll see a copy of in your developer preview.

You can change your active project by running:

```shell
lightdash config set-project
```

### Run `lightdash preview`

Now that you've logged in and configured your Lightdash project, you'll be able to spin up a developer preview and check out your new metric.

In your terminal, run the commands:

```shell
dbt compile
lightdash preview
```

Then `cmd` + `click` to open the preview link from your terminal and start playing around with your changes.

## 3. If you're happy with your new metric, you can deploy it to production.

Once you're happy with your changes, you'll want to commit them and push/merge them to the branch connected with Lightdash (e.g. `main` or `master`).

Once those changes are merged into your dbt project, you can either run `lightdash deploy` on your command line or hit "Refresh dbt" in the Lightdash UI to start exploring your new metric in production!

Commit message:

adds tutorial to metrics doc

docs/docs/get-started/setup-lightdash/add-metrics.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 5
sidebar_label: Create your first metrics
---

# Create your first metrics

import DataQuestion from './assets/data-question.svg';

## What is a metric?

Metrics are defined in your dbt project alongside your dbt model properties.

* **Dimensions** are used to **segment data** in your Tables.
* **Metrics** are used to **perform calculations** on your Tables.

Say we're running an ecommerce business, we probably have a table containing all order data. We might want to
ask:

<div style={{textAlign: 'center', paddingBottom: 30, paddingTop: 10}}>
  <DataQuestion width="70%"/>
</div>

This question can be answered using a single metric "the total number of unique orders" and a single dimension for
splitting the metric by "status of order". In Lightdash you'd get the following chart:

![two metrics on a bar chart](./assets/metric-on-bar-chart.png)

To learn more about why we use dimensions and metrics in Lightdash, [read the Lightdash approach to BI](/best-practice/lightdash-way).

## How to build metrics in Lightdash

Here's a quick video showing how we develop metrics in our Lightdash projects. We'll cover these steps in more details below!

<a href="https://www.loom.com/share/fddc9adab0694f60a85d0a48d67469be">
    <img src="https://cdn.loom.com/sessions/thumbnails/fddc9adab0694f60a85d0a48d67469be-with-play.gif" />
</a>

## 1. Add a metric to your project

Metrics are defined in your dbt project files along with your dimensions and dbt model properties.

If dimensions segment your data into groups, metrics calculate interesting statistics for those groups.

For example, once we've used the `status` dimension to split orders by their `status`, we may want to know the
"Total number of orders" or the "Total sales" of the orders. These calculations are metrics:

```yaml
# schema.yml
version: 2
models:
  - name: "orders"
    columns:
      - name: "status"
      - name: "order_id"
        meta:
          metrics:
            total_order_count:
              type: count
```
You can [see the full list of metric types](https://docs.lightdash.com/references/metrics) that you can use in your Lightdash project.

### Ggo ahead and try adding a metric to a model in your project. 

We'd suggest starting out simple, like a `count` for a primary key in your table.

## 2. Login to the Lightdash CLI

Once you've added a metric to your dbt model, you might want to check to make sure that it's working the way you'd expect. This is where `lightdash preview` comes in handy. 

**Developer previews** are temporary Lightdash projects where you can safely experiment with your metrics, dimensions and charts 
without affecting your production project.

### To build a preview, you'll need to authenticate yourself in the Lightdash CLI. 

There are two ways of doing this:

1. [Run **Login command**](#login) to use your email and password.
2. [Via **environment variables**](#environment-variables) to use a personal access token and help automate CI&CD pipelines. _(Note that if you are using Google SSO login you should authenticate via environment variables.)_


---

#### Login command

To login to your Lightdash instance run the following command and provide your login email and password:

```shell
lightdash login https://my-lightdash.domain.com
```

where `https://my-lightdash.domain.com` is the address for your running Lightdash instance. For example Lightdash 
cloud users would type `lightdash login https://app.lightdash.cloud`.

---

#### Environment variables

You can use the following environment variables to authenticate yourself on each command:

- **LIGHTDASH_API_KEY** a personal access token you can generate in the app under the user settings
- **LIGHTDASH_URL** address for your running Lightdash instance

Example:

```shell
LIGHTDASH_API_KEY=946fedb74003405646867dcacf1ad345 LIGHTDASH_URL="https://app.lightdash.cloud" lightdash preview
```

---

### Choose which project you want to preview

When you login you'll be asked to set an active project. The active project is the dbt project you'll see a copy of in your developer preview.

You can change your active project by running:

```shell
lightdash config set-project
```

## 3. Preview your changes using `lightdash preview`

Now that you've logged in and configured your Lightdash project, you'll be able to spin up a developer preview and check out your new metric.

In your terminal, run the commands:

```shell
dbt compile
lightdash preview
```

Then `cmd` + `click` to open the preview link from your terminal and start playing around with your changes.

## 4. If you're happy with your new metric, you can deploy it to production.

Once you're happy with your changes, you'll want to commit them and push/merge them to the branch connected with Lightdash (e.g. `main` or `master`).

Once those changes are merged into your dbt project, you can either run `lightdash deploy` on your command line or hit "Refresh dbt" in the Lightdash UI to start exploring your new metric in production!
