docs/docs/get-started/setup-lightdash/get-project-lightdash-ready.mdx, before:

import dbtRepoExample from './assets/dbt-repo-example.png';
import TablesView from './assets/tables-view.jpg';
import ExampleTable from './assets/example-table.jpg';
import Overview from './assets/overview-intro.png';
import PersonalAccessToken from './assets/personal-access-token.png';
import UpdateConnection from './assets/update-connection.jpg';

# Create your first project in Lightdash

<img src={Overview} width="1359" height="265" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

In Lightdash, everything you need for BI is written as code in your dbt project. You use dbt to transform all of the data from your data warehouse, then you use Lightdash to explore it.

But, before you hook up your dbt project to Lightdash, we need to make sure we have Tables to explore. **In this setup guide, we'll walk you through the steps of installing + using the Lightdash CLI and creating the first Tables in your project.**

:::tip

**New to dbt?** If you haven't used dbt before, [follow dbt's getting started guide](https://docs.getdbt.com/tutorial/setting-up)
before proceeding with setting up Lightdash.

:::

## What are Tables?

Tables are the starting point to any data exploration in Lightdash - they're the data in Lightdash that you can query. The beauty of Lightdash is that we're pretty well synced with your dbt project. So, in Lightdash, Tables actually come from dbt models that have been defined in your dbt project's `.yml` files.

If your dbt model has been defined in a .yml file, it will appear in Lightdash as a Table.

:::tip

Not sure what a .yml file is? Make sure to [check out dbt's docs](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/configs-and-properties) to learn more about building .yml files for your dbt project.

:::

Here's an example of our `Community stats daily` model we've defined in dbt. In Lightdash, we can see it in our list of available Tables to explore.

<img src={TablesView} width="920" height="391" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

Now that we know what tables are, let's add some and create our first project!

---

## Step 1: Install the Lightdash CLI tool

The Lightdash CLI is the recommended way to develop your dbt + Lightdash project. It makes development faster and
easier, as well as giving you options for building more powerful automation to manage your Lightdash instance.

To install the Lightdash CLI, run the following on your command line.

```shell
npm install -g @lightdash/cli
```

<details>
  <summary>If you see any errors, you might need to install an extra package:</summary>
  **Mac OS**


  ```shell
  /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/scripts/install.sh)" # install homebrew if you don't have it
  brew install unixodbc
  npm install -g @lightdash/cli
  ```

  **Ubuntu**

  ```shell
  sudo apt install unixodbc
  npm install -g @lightdash/cli
  ```
</details>

---

## Step 2: Login to the CLI

We've automatically generated a personal access token that you can use to login to the CLI, so you just need to copy-paste that command in your Terminal.

It's Step 2. and should look something like this:

```shell
lightdash login https://app.lightdash.cloud --token my-super-secret-token
```

If you want to login using another method, then you [can check out our authentication methods here](/guides/cli/cli-authentication.mdx).

---

## Step 3: Add Tables

:::info

If you're using dbt Cloud, you'll need to [clone your repo to your local machine](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository) before completing the next steps. 

:::

To get our dbt project Lightdash-ready, we need to define all of the columns in our dbt models that we want to explore in Lightdash. We've made this really easy to do using our CLI tool and the command:

```shell
lightdash dbt run
```

This will generate Tables and dimensions for your **_entire_** dbt project. It will document all of the columns in your models and these are what we explore in Lightdash as `Dimensions`.

For example, if we have a `projects.yml` file, we'd have a Table called `Projects` and it would have the dimensions: `Dashboards created num total` and `Days since project created`.

<img src={ExampleTable} width="709" height="226" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

<details>
  <summary>Error: Not a dbt project (or any of the parent directories). Missing dbt_project.yml file</summary>
  Make sure that you're in your dbt project folder before you try doing `lightdash dbt run`! Otherwise, you'll run into this error.
</details>

#### If you only want to generate Tables and dimensions for **_some_** of the models in your dbt project, check this out
<details>
  <summary>Generate Tables and dimensions for some of the models in my dbt project:</summary>
  There may be a specific set of models that you want to start out with as Tables in Lightdash. If this is the case, we recommend [using dbt's `tags`](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/resource-configs/tags) to tag these models. You can use sets of existing tags, or you can create a new Lightdash-specific tag. Something like this:

  ```yaml
  {{
    config(
      materialized='table',
      tags=['lightdash']
    )
  }}
  ```

  The `lightdash dbt run` command supports dbt model selection syntax to generate .yml files for a group of models. This means you can use tags or other model selection syntax to specify which models you want to generate dimensions for in your dbt project.

  ```shell
  lightdash dbt run -s tag:lightdash # all models with the lightdash tag
  lightdash dbt run -s payments  # just payments
  lightdash dbt run -s payments+ # payments and all children
  lightdash dbt run -s +payments # payments and all parents
  lightdash dbt run -s payments+ +customers tag:lightdash # mix and match
  ```
</details>

---

## Step 4: Create your project

Now, your dbt project is Lightdash-ready! Just run this command and follow the link to start exploring your data:

```bash
lightdash deploy --create
```

---

## Next steps: Update your project connection settings

We create your first project using your local dbt `profiles.yml` file. So, you might want to update your connection settings to:

1. Set up a service account for Lightdash to run on (instead of using your personal connection details)
2. Connect Lightdash to your version controlled dbt project so changes are automatically synced.

Check out details on [updating your connection settings here](/get-started/setup-lightdash/connect-project.mdx).

<img src={UpdateConnection} width="1062" height="602" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

Commit message:

feat: select warehouse before instructions (#3475)
* feat: select warehouse before instructions

* revert: link button with replace prop

* test: fix e2e in createProject after changing schema to database

* feat: add unhappy path for unsupported warehouses

* feat: add InviteExplorerFooter

* copy: update unsupported warehouse copy

* fix: navigation to select warehouses screen

* docs: add a tip to install NodeJS before installing the CLI

* docs: fix tip end

* docs: change tip to info

* docs: add alternative installing option for nodejs/npm

docs/docs/get-started/setup-lightdash/get-project-lightdash-ready.mdx, after:

import dbtRepoExample from './assets/dbt-repo-example.png';
import TablesView from './assets/tables-view.jpg';
import ExampleTable from './assets/example-table.jpg';
import Overview from './assets/overview-intro.png';
import PersonalAccessToken from './assets/personal-access-token.png';
import UpdateConnection from './assets/update-connection.jpg';

# Create your first project in Lightdash

<img src={Overview} width="1359" height="265" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

In Lightdash, everything you need for BI is written as code in your dbt project. You use dbt to transform all of the data from your data warehouse, then you use Lightdash to explore it.

But, before you hook up your dbt project to Lightdash, we need to make sure we have Tables to explore. **In this setup guide, we'll walk you through the steps of installing + using the Lightdash CLI and creating the first Tables in your project.**

:::tip

**New to dbt?** If you haven't used dbt before, [follow dbt's getting started guide](https://docs.getdbt.com/tutorial/setting-up)
before proceeding with setting up Lightdash.

:::

## What are Tables?

Tables are the starting point to any data exploration in Lightdash - they're the data in Lightdash that you can query. The beauty of Lightdash is that we're pretty well synced with your dbt project. So, in Lightdash, Tables actually come from dbt models that have been defined in your dbt project's `.yml` files.

If your dbt model has been defined in a .yml file, it will appear in Lightdash as a Table.

:::tip

Not sure what a .yml file is? Make sure to [check out dbt's docs](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/configs-and-properties) to learn more about building .yml files for your dbt project.

:::

Here's an example of our `Community stats daily` model we've defined in dbt. In Lightdash, we can see it in our list of available Tables to explore.

<img src={TablesView} width="920" height="391" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

Now that we know what tables are, let's add some and create our first project!

---

## Step 1: Install the Lightdash CLI tool

:::info

**Don't have NodeJS/NPM installed in your system?** [Head out to NodeJS's download page](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
before proceeding with installing the Lightdash CLI tool. Alternatively, you can [install NodeJS/NPM via package manager](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/).

:::

The Lightdash CLI is the recommended way to develop your dbt + Lightdash project. It makes development faster and
easier, as well as giving you options for building more powerful automation to manage your Lightdash instance.

To install the Lightdash CLI, run the following on your command line.

```shell
npm install -g @lightdash/cli
```

<details>
  <summary>If you see any errors, you might need to install an extra package:</summary>

  **Mac OS**


  ```shell
  /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/scripts/install.sh)" # install homebrew if you don't have it
  brew install unixodbc
  npm install -g @lightdash/cli
  ```

  **Ubuntu**

  ```shell
  sudo apt install unixodbc
  npm install -g @lightdash/cli
  ```
</details>

---

## Step 2: Login to the CLI

We've automatically generated a personal access token that you can use to login to the CLI, so you just need to copy-paste that command in your Terminal.

It's Step 2. and should look something like this:

```shell
lightdash login https://app.lightdash.cloud --token my-super-secret-token
```

If you want to login using another method, then you [can check out our authentication methods here](/guides/cli/cli-authentication.mdx).

---

## Step 3: Add Tables

:::info

If you're using dbt Cloud, you'll need to [clone your repo to your local machine](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/cloning-a-repository) before completing the next steps.

:::

To get our dbt project Lightdash-ready, we need to define all of the columns in our dbt models that we want to explore in Lightdash. We've made this really easy to do using our CLI tool and the command:

```shell
lightdash dbt run
```

This will generate Tables and dimensions for your **_entire_** dbt project. It will document all of the columns in your models and these are what we explore in Lightdash as `Dimensions`.

For example, if we have a `projects.yml` file, we'd have a Table called `Projects` and it would have the dimensions: `Dashboards created num total` and `Days since project created`.

<img src={ExampleTable} width="709" height="226" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

<details>
  <summary>Error: Not a dbt project (or any of the parent directories). Missing dbt_project.yml file</summary>
  Make sure that you're in your dbt project folder before you try doing `lightdash dbt run`! Otherwise, you'll run into this error.
</details>

#### If you only want to generate Tables and dimensions for **_some_** of the models in your dbt project, check this out
<details>
  <summary>Generate Tables and dimensions for some of the models in my dbt project:</summary>
  There may be a specific set of models that you want to start out with as Tables in Lightdash. If this is the case, we recommend [using dbt's `tags`](https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/resource-configs/tags) to tag these models. You can use sets of existing tags, or you can create a new Lightdash-specific tag. Something like this:

  ```yaml
  {{
    config(
      materialized='table',
      tags=['lightdash']
    )
  }}
  ```

  The `lightdash dbt run` command supports dbt model selection syntax to generate .yml files for a group of models. This means you can use tags or other model selection syntax to specify which models you want to generate dimensions for in your dbt project.

  ```shell
  lightdash dbt run -s tag:lightdash # all models with the lightdash tag
  lightdash dbt run -s payments  # just payments
  lightdash dbt run -s payments+ # payments and all children
  lightdash dbt run -s +payments # payments and all parents
  lightdash dbt run -s payments+ +customers tag:lightdash # mix and match
  ```
</details>

---

## Step 4: Create your project

Now, your dbt project is Lightdash-ready! Just run this command and follow the link to start exploring your data:

```bash
lightdash deploy --create
```

---

## Next steps: Update your project connection settings

We create your first project using your local dbt `profiles.yml` file. So, you might want to update your connection settings to:

1. Set up a service account for Lightdash to run on (instead of using your personal connection details)
2. Connect Lightdash to your version controlled dbt project so changes are automatically synced.

Check out details on [updating your connection settings here](/get-started/setup-lightdash/connect-project.mdx).

<img src={UpdateConnection} width="1062" height="602" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>
