docs/docs/get-started/exploring-data/using-explores.mdx, before:

import UnderlyingData from './assets/view-underlying-data.jpg';
import ExploreScreenshot from './assets/explore-screenshot.jpg';
import ResultsTable from './assets/results-table.png';
import SaveChart from './assets/save-chart.jpg';

# Using Tables and the Explore view in Lightdash

Now that you've connected your dbt project to Lightdash, it's time to start exploring your data.

A **Table** is the main starting point for exploring data in Lightdash. It contains a group of related
dbt models, dimensions, and metrics. You **explore Tables in the Explore view**.

## An intro to Tables and the Explore view

[![tutorial exploring the explore view](./assets/tutorial_exploring_the_explore_view.png)](https://youtu.be/q6CAP4nhn4E)

### There are 5 areas to the Explore view

<img src={ExploreScreenshot} width="1122" height="891" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

1. The list of metrics and dimensions available on the Table
2. The filters panel, which lets you restrict the data pulled into Lightdash
3. The chart panel to visualise the results of queries
4. The results panel to explore the results of queries as a table
5. The SQL panel, which shows the raw SQL that produced the results

## How to create a saved chart from the Explore view

Not a fan of videos? You can [follow along with the steps below.](#run-your-query)

[![tutorial creating saved chart explore](./assets/tutorial_creating_saved_chart_explore.png)](https://youtu.be/NGlsiCOV7gA)

### Run your query

To run a query:

1. Select a metric to calculate
2. Select one or more dimensions to split the metric into groups
3. Hit "Run Query" in the top right

For example, if I wanted to know the "total number of orders split by order status", I'd select the `Unique order
count` metric to calculate the number of orders and the `Status` dimension to split that by status.

### Order the results in your table

Click on the table headers that you want to sort by and click again if you want to change from ascending to descending.
If you need multiple sorts you can add more by pressing `⌃ Control` or `⌘ Command` and click on the table header.

### Visualize query results as a chart

Once the query executes, the results will show in the results table. You can then open the charts section and choose
a chart type to visualise the metric.

You can read more about [configuring your charts here](/guides/visualizing-your-results).

<img src={ResultsTable} width="692" height="389" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

### View the underlying data in a cell

You can click on any cell in your results table and view the records from your table which make up that cell.

For example, I can click on the `page view count` in my results table here and I'd see all of the rows in my `Pages` table that make up my 32,880 count.

<img src={UnderlyingData} width="1220" height="524" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

I can then export this as a CSV or explore from this underlying data.

### Save your chart

Saved Charts allow you to save a specific chart or visualisation so you can share it or revisit it again in future.

When you open a saved chart, it will always update to display the latest data in your database.

<img src={SaveChart} width="1425" height="953" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

To save a chart:

1. In chart panel of the Explore view you will find the button to save your chart.
2. Enter a memorable name for the chart, a good idea is to use a question as the name "How many orders are there at each stage?"
3. Click on `Saved charts` to see your finished work of art 😚👌

## Next steps

Creating a chart is cool, creating three charts is 3x cooler. Creating a dashboard with your three charts is 300x
cooler 😎. Learn [how to create and share dashboards](./dashboards.md)

Commit message:

docs: update dimension docs (#3058)
* updates adding metrics doc

* updates getting started with new intro doc

* updates intro docs

* adds dimensions docs

* updates extension for dimensions file

* fix extension

* adds missing import

* adds overview doc

* updates dimensions reference doc

* starts updating metrics docs

* updates sharing docs

* removes extra save chart image

* add step count

* updates explores docs

* updates exploring your data docs

* fixes image link

* updates metrics intro doc

* updates image size

* updates images in metrics doc

* updates images

* adds underlying data image

* updates underlying data image

* removes step in using explores

* removes image

* fixes missing files

docs/docs/get-started/exploring-data/using-explores.mdx, after:

import ExploreScreenshot from './assets/explore-screenshot.jpg';
import ResultsTable from './assets/results-table.png';
import SaveChart from './assets/save-chart.jpg';
import SelectTable from './assets/select-table.jpg';

# Using Tables and the Explore view in Lightdash

Now that you've connected your dbt project to Lightdash, it's time to start exploring your data.

A **Table** is the main starting point for exploring data in Lightdash. It contains a group of related
dbt models, dimensions, and metrics. You **explore Tables in the Explore view**.

## An intro to Tables and the Explore view

[![tutorial exploring the explore view](./assets/tutorial_exploring_the_explore_view.png)](https://youtu.be/q6CAP4nhn4E)

### There are 5 areas to the Explore view

To access the Explore view, you just need to go to `Explore` --> `Tables` -> then select the Table you want to explore.

<img src={SelectTable} width="870" height="360" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

The Explore view is really made up of 5 areas:

1. The list of metrics and dimensions available on the Table
2. The filters panel, which lets you restrict the data pulled into Lightdash
3. The chart panel to visualise the results of queries
4. The results panel to explore the results of queries as a table
5. The SQL panel, which shows the raw SQL that produced the results

<img src={ExploreScreenshot} width="1122" height="891" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

## How to create a saved chart from the Explore view in 5 easy steps

[![tutorial creating saved chart explore](./assets/tutorial_creating_saved_chart_explore.png)](https://youtu.be/NGlsiCOV7gA)

### Step 1: Select the Table you want to explore

Go to `Explore` --> `Tables` --> then select the Table that you want to explore.

<img src={SelectTable} width="870" height="360" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

### Step 2: Run your query

To run a query:

1. Select a metric to calculate
2. Select one or more dimensions to split the metric into groups
3. Hit "Run Query" in the top right

For example, if I wanted to know the "total number of orders split by order status", I'd select the `Unique order
count` metric to calculate the number of orders and the `Status` dimension to split that by status.

### Step 3: Order the results in your table

Click on the table headers that you want to sort by and click again if you want to change from ascending to descending.
If you need multiple sorts you can add more by pressing `⌃ Control` or `⌘ Command` and click on the table header.

### Step 4: Visualize query results as a chart

Once the query executes, the results will show in the results table. You can then open the charts section and choose
a chart type to visualise the metric.

You can read more about [configuring your charts here](/guides/visualizing-your-results).

<img src={ResultsTable} width="692" height="389" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

### Step 5: Save your chart

Saved Charts allow you to save a specific chart or visualisation so you can share it or revisit it again in future.

When you open a saved chart, it will always update to display the latest data in your database.

<img src={SaveChart} width="1425" height="953" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

To save a chart:

1. In chart panel of the Explore view you will find the button to save your chart.
2. Enter a memorable name for the chart, a good idea is to use a question as the name "How many orders are there at each stage?"
3. Click on `Saved charts` to see your finished work of art 😚👌
