docs/docs/references/environmentVariables.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 8
---

# Environment variables

This is a reference to all environment variables that can be used to configure a Lightdash deployment.

| Variable                    | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Required? | Default                                                         |
|-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| `PGHOST`                    | Hostname of postgres server to store Lightdash data                                                                                                                                                           | ✅         |                                                                 |
| `PGPORT`                    | Port of postgres server to store Lightdash data                                                                                                                                                               | ✅         |                                                                 |
| `PGUSER`                    | Username of postgres user to access postgres server to store Lightdash data                                                                                                                                   | ✅         |                                                                 |
| `PGPASSWORD`                | Password for `PGUSER`                                                                                                                                                                                         | ✅         |                                                                 |
| `PGDATABASE`                | Database name inside postgres server to store Lightdash data                                                                                                                                                  | ✅         |                                                                 |
| `PGCONNECTIONURI`           | Connection URI for postgres server to store Lightdash data in the format `postgresql://user:password@host:port/db?params`                                                                                     |           | This is an alternative to providing the previous `PG` variables |
| `LIGHTDASH_SECRET`          | Secret key used to secure various tokens in Lightdash. This **must** be fixed between deployments. If the secret changes, you won't have access to Lightdash data.                                            | ✅         |                                                                 |
| `SECURE_COOKIES`            | Only allows cookies to be stored over a `https` connection. We use cookies to keep you logged in. This is recommended to be set to `true` in production.                                                      |           | `false`                                                         |
| `TRUST_PROXY`               | This tells the Lightdash server that it can trust the `X-Forwarded-Proto` header it receives in requests. This is useful if you use `SECURE_COOKIES=true` behind a HTTPS terminated proxy that you can trust. |           | `false`                                                         |
| `LIGHTDASH_CONFIG_FILE`     | Path to a `lightdash.yml` file to configure Lightdash. This is set by default and if you're using docker you shouldn't change it.                                                                             |           |                                                                 |
| `SITE_URL`                  | Site url where Lightdash is being hosted. It should include the protocol. E.g https://lightdash.mycompany.com                                                                                                 |           | `http://localhost:8080`                                         |
| `LIGHTDASH_QUERY_MAX_LIMIT` | Query max rows limit                                                                                                                                                                                          |           | `5000`                                                          |                                                           |

Lightdash also accepts all [standard postgres environment variables](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.3/libpq-envars.html)

# SMTP environment variables

This is a reference to all the SMTP environment variables that can be used to configure a Lightdash email client.

| Variable | Description | Required? | Default |
|----------|-------------|-----------|---------|
|`EMAIL_SMTP_HOST`| Hostname of email server | ✅ | |
|`EMAIL_SMTP_PORT` | Port of email server | | 587 |
|`EMAIL_SMTP_SECURE` | Secure connection | | true |
|`EMAIL_SMTP_USER` | Auth user | ✅ | |
|`EMAIL_SMTP_PASSWORD` | Auth password | [1] | |
|`EMAIL_SMTP_ACCESS_TOKEN` | Auth access token for Oauth2 authentication | [1] | |
|`EMAIL_SMTP_ALLOW_INVALID_CERT` | Allow connection to TLS server with self-signed or invalid TLS certificate | | false |
|`EMAIL_SMTP_SENDER_EMAIL` | The email address that sends emails | ✅ | |
|`EMAIL_SMTP_SENDER_NAME` | The name of the email address that sends emails | | Lightdash |

[1] `EMAIL_SMTP_PASSWORD` or `EMAIL_SMTP_ACCESS_TOKEN` needs to be provided

# SSO environment variables

These variables enable you to control Single Sign On (SSO) functionality.

| Variable                               | Description                                              | Required? | Default |
|----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|-----------|------|
| `AUTH_DISABLE_PASSWORD_AUTHENTICATION` | If `"true"` disables signing in with plain passwords     | | false |
| `AUTH_GOOGLE_OAUTH2_CLIENT_ID`         | Required for Google SSO                                  | |      |
| `AUTH_GOOGLE_OAUTH2_CLIENT_SECRET`     | Required for Google SSO                                  | |      |
| `AUTH_OKTA_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID`            | Required for Okta SSO                                    | |      |
| `AUTH_OKTA_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET`        | Required for Okta SSO                                    | |      |
| `AUTH_OKTA_OAUTH_ISSUER`               | Required for Okta SSO                                    | |      |
| `AUTH_OKTA_DOMAIN`                     | Required for Okta SSO                                    | |      |
| `AUTH_OKTA_AUTHORIZATION_SERVER_ID`    | Optional for Okta SSO with a custom authorization server | |      |

Commit message:

docs: add STATIC_IP to docs

docs/docs/references/environmentVariables.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 8
---

# Environment variables

This is a reference to all environment variables that can be used to configure a Lightdash deployment.

| Variable                    | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                   | Required? | Default                                                         |
|-----------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|
| `PGHOST`                    | Hostname of postgres server to store Lightdash data                                                                                                                                                           | ✅         |                                                                 |
| `PGPORT`                    | Port of postgres server to store Lightdash data                                                                                                                                                               | ✅         |                                                                 |
| `PGUSER`                    | Username of postgres user to access postgres server to store Lightdash data                                                                                                                                   | ✅         |                                                                 |
| `PGPASSWORD`                | Password for `PGUSER`                                                                                                                                                                                         | ✅         |                                                                 |
| `PGDATABASE`                | Database name inside postgres server to store Lightdash data                                                                                                                                                  | ✅         |                                                                 |
| `PGCONNECTIONURI`           | Connection URI for postgres server to store Lightdash data in the format `postgresql://user:password@host:port/db?params`                                                                                     |           | This is an alternative to providing the previous `PG` variables |
| `LIGHTDASH_SECRET`          | Secret key used to secure various tokens in Lightdash. This **must** be fixed between deployments. If the secret changes, you won't have access to Lightdash data.                                            | ✅         |                                                                 |
| `SECURE_COOKIES`            | Only allows cookies to be stored over a `https` connection. We use cookies to keep you logged in. This is recommended to be set to `true` in production.                                                      |           | `false`                                                         |
| `TRUST_PROXY`               | This tells the Lightdash server that it can trust the `X-Forwarded-Proto` header it receives in requests. This is useful if you use `SECURE_COOKIES=true` behind a HTTPS terminated proxy that you can trust. |           | `false`                                                         |
| `LIGHTDASH_CONFIG_FILE`     | Path to a `lightdash.yml` file to configure Lightdash. This is set by default and if you're using docker you shouldn't change it.                                                                             |           |                                                                 |
| `SITE_URL`                  | Site url where Lightdash is being hosted. It should include the protocol. E.g https://lightdash.mycompany.com                                                                                                 |           | `http://localhost:8080`                                         |
| `STATIC_IP`                 | Server static IP so users can add the IP to their warehouse allow-list.                                                                                                                                       |           | `http://localhost:8080`                                         |
| `LIGHTDASH_QUERY_MAX_LIMIT` | Query max rows limit                                                                                                                                                                                          |           | `5000`                                                          |                                                           |

Lightdash also accepts all [standard postgres environment variables](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.3/libpq-envars.html)

# SMTP environment variables

This is a reference to all the SMTP environment variables that can be used to configure a Lightdash email client.

| Variable | Description | Required? | Default |
|----------|-------------|-----------|---------|
|`EMAIL_SMTP_HOST`| Hostname of email server | ✅ | |
|`EMAIL_SMTP_PORT` | Port of email server | | 587 |
|`EMAIL_SMTP_SECURE` | Secure connection | | true |
|`EMAIL_SMTP_USER` | Auth user | ✅ | |
|`EMAIL_SMTP_PASSWORD` | Auth password | [1] | |
|`EMAIL_SMTP_ACCESS_TOKEN` | Auth access token for Oauth2 authentication | [1] | |
|`EMAIL_SMTP_ALLOW_INVALID_CERT` | Allow connection to TLS server with self-signed or invalid TLS certificate | | false |
|`EMAIL_SMTP_SENDER_EMAIL` | The email address that sends emails | ✅ | |
|`EMAIL_SMTP_SENDER_NAME` | The name of the email address that sends emails | | Lightdash |

[1] `EMAIL_SMTP_PASSWORD` or `EMAIL_SMTP_ACCESS_TOKEN` needs to be provided

# SSO environment variables

These variables enable you to control Single Sign On (SSO) functionality.

| Variable                               | Description                                              | Required? | Default |
|----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|-----------|------|
| `AUTH_DISABLE_PASSWORD_AUTHENTICATION` | If `"true"` disables signing in with plain passwords     | | false |
| `AUTH_GOOGLE_OAUTH2_CLIENT_ID`         | Required for Google SSO                                  | |      |
| `AUTH_GOOGLE_OAUTH2_CLIENT_SECRET`     | Required for Google SSO                                  | |      |
| `AUTH_OKTA_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID`            | Required for Okta SSO                                    | |      |
| `AUTH_OKTA_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET`        | Required for Okta SSO                                    | |      |
| `AUTH_OKTA_OAUTH_ISSUER`               | Required for Okta SSO                                    | |      |
| `AUTH_OKTA_DOMAIN`                     | Required for Okta SSO                                    | |      |
| `AUTH_OKTA_AUTHORIZATION_SERVER_ID`    | Optional for Okta SSO with a custom authorization server | |      |
