docs/docs/references/filters.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Filters reference sheet

Filters appear at the top of the Explore view and allow users to change the data being pulled in.

---

## Using filters

To learn more about using filters, check out our docs on limiting data using filters.

## Filter types

### Numeric filters

| Filter          | logic                                                                                                 |
|-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| is null         | Only pulls in rows where the values are null for the field selected.                                  |
| is not null     | Only pulls in rows where the values are not null for the field selected.                              |
| is equal to     | Only pulls in rows where the values are equal to the values listed.                                   |
| is not equal to | Only pulls in rows where the values are not equal to the values listed.                               |
| is less than    | Only pulls in rows where the values for the field selected are strictly less than the value listed.   |
| is greater than | Only pulls in rows where the values for the field selectedare strictly greater than the value listed. |

### String filters

| Filter          | logic                                                                                              |
|-----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| is null         | Only pulls in rows where the values are null for the field selected.                               |
| is not null     | Only pulls in rows where the values are not null for the field selected.                           |
| is equal to     | Only pulls in rows where the values are equal to the values listed.                                |
| is not equal to | Only pulls in rows where the values are not equal to the values listed.                            |
| starts with     | Only pulls in rows where the values for the field selected start with characters you've entered.   |
| includes        | Only pulls in rows where the values for the field selected includes the characters you've entered. |
| ends with       | Only pulls in rows where the values for the field selected end with the characters you've entered. |

### Boolean filters

| Filter      | logic                                                                    |
|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| is null     | Only pulls in rows where the values are null for the field selected.     |
| is not null | Only pulls in rows where the values are not null for the field selected. |
| is equal to | Only pulls in rows where the values are equal to the values listed.      |

### Date filters

| Filter          | logic                                                                                                     |
|-----------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| is null         | Only pulls in rows where the values are null for the field selected.                                      |
| is not null     | Only pulls in rows where the values are not null for the field selected.                                  |
| is equal to     | Only pulls in rows where the values are equal to the values listed.                                       |
| is not equal to | Only pulls in rows where the values are not equal to the values listed.                                   |
| in the last     | Only pulls in rows where the dates for the field selected are within the dynamic date range you selected. |
| is before       | Only pulls in rows where the dates for the field selected are strictly before the date you entered.       |
| is on or before | Only pulls in rows where the dates for the field selected are on or before the date you entered.          |
| is after        | Only pulls in rows where the dates for the field selected are strictly after the date you entered.        |
| is on or after  | Only pulls in rows where the dates for the field selected are on or after the date you entered.           |
| is between      | Only pulls in rows where the dates for the field selected are on or between the dates you entered.        |

Commit message:

fix: changing filter name to custom range

docs/docs/references/filters.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# Filters reference sheet

Filters appear at the top of the Explore view and allow users to change the data being pulled in.

---

## Using filters

To learn more about using filters, check out our docs on limiting data using filters.

## Filter types

### Numeric filters

| Filter          | logic                                                                                                 |
|-----------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| is null         | Only pulls in rows where the values are null for the field selected.                                  |
| is not null     | Only pulls in rows where the values are not null for the field selected.                              |
| is equal to     | Only pulls in rows where the values are equal to the values listed.                                   |
| is not equal to | Only pulls in rows where the values are not equal to the values listed.                               |
| is less than    | Only pulls in rows where the values for the field selected are strictly less than the value listed.   |
| is greater than | Only pulls in rows where the values for the field selectedare strictly greater than the value listed. |

### String filters

| Filter          | logic                                                                                              |
|-----------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| is null         | Only pulls in rows where the values are null for the field selected.                               |
| is not null     | Only pulls in rows where the values are not null for the field selected.                           |
| is equal to     | Only pulls in rows where the values are equal to the values listed.                                |
| is not equal to | Only pulls in rows where the values are not equal to the values listed.                            |
| starts with     | Only pulls in rows where the values for the field selected start with characters you've entered.   |
| includes        | Only pulls in rows where the values for the field selected includes the characters you've entered. |
| ends with       | Only pulls in rows where the values for the field selected end with the characters you've entered. |

### Boolean filters

| Filter      | logic                                                                    |
|-------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| is null     | Only pulls in rows where the values are null for the field selected.     |
| is not null | Only pulls in rows where the values are not null for the field selected. |
| is equal to | Only pulls in rows where the values are equal to the values listed.      |

### Date filters

| Filter          | logic                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|-----------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| is null         | Only pulls in rows where the values are null for the field selected.                                                                                                                       |
| is not null     | Only pulls in rows where the values are not null for the field selected.                                                                                                                   |
| is equal to     | Only pulls in rows where the values are equal to the values listed.                                                                                                                        |
| is not equal to | Only pulls in rows where the values are not equal to the values listed.                                                                                                                    |
| in the last     | Only pulls in rows where the dates for the field selected are within the dynamic date range you selected.                                                                                  |
| is before       | Only pulls in rows where the dates for the field selected are strictly before the date you entered.                                                                                        |
| is on or before | Only pulls in rows where the dates for the field selected are on or before the date you entered.                                                                                           |
| is after        | Only pulls in rows where the dates for the field selected are strictly after the date you entered.                                                                                         |
| is on or after  | Only pulls in rows where the dates for the field selected are on or after the date you entered.                                                                                            |
| custom range    | Only pulls in rows where the dates for the field selected are on or between the dates you entered. Some ranges are already provided: "Past 3 months", "Past 6 months", "Past 2 years" etc. |
