docs/docs/references/roles.mdx, before:

import AllowedEmailDomains from './../snippets/allowed-email-domains.mdx';

# Roles and permissions

## Roles in your Lightdash instance

- Everybody in your organization will join as an `Organization Member` unless specified. For example, if I invite someone to a project as an editor, they will become an organization member with `editor` access to that project. If I invite someone to the **_organization_** as a `viewer`, then they will be an `organization viewer` (instead of an `organization member`).
- All organization members can create their own projects and will be the Project Admin for that project.
- Admins have access to all content (even content they haven't been explicitly invited to).

### Project Roles

Project Admins can invite users to their project and assign users or [groups](/references/groups.mdx) to roles in that project. Note that projects may also be
accessible by users with organization roles.

| Action                                                 | Project Admin | Project Developer | Project Editor | Project Interactive Viewer | Project Viewer |
| :----------------------------------------------------- | :-----------: | :---------------: | :------------: | :------------------------: | :------------: |
| View charts and dashboards                             |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ✅             |       ✅       |
| Export results visible in a chart to CSV               |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ✅             |       ✅       |
| Export results visible in a chart to Google Sheets     |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ✅             |       ✅       |
| Export results to CSV and override the limit           |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ✅             |       ❌       |
| Export results to Google Sheets and override the limit |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ✅             |       ❌       |
| View comments                                          |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ✅             |       ✅       |
| Create comments                                        |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ✅             |       ❌       |
| Use the explorer                                       |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ✅             |       ❌       |
| View underlying data                                   |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ✅             |       ❌       |
| Create/edit scheduled deliveries                       |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ✅             |       ❌       |
| Create/edit Syncs                                      |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ❌             |       ❌       |
| Create/edit charts and dashboards                      |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ❌             |       ❌       |
| Use the SQL runner                                     |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ❌       |             ❌             |       ❌       |
| Manage project access and permissions                  |      ✅       |        ❌         |       ❌       |             ❌             |       ❌       |
| Delete project                                         |      ✅       |        ❌         |       ❌       |             ❌             |       ❌       |
| Create project previews                                |      ✅       |        ❌         |       ❌       |             ❌             |       ❌       |

### Organization Roles

Organization Admins can assign roles to organization members, which gives access to all projects in the organization.

| Action                                     | Organization Admin |   Organization Developer   |    Organization Editor     | Organization Interactive Viewer | Organization Viewer | Organization Member |
| :----------------------------------------- | :----------------: | :------------------------: | :------------------------: | :-----------------------------: | :-----------------: | :-----------------: |
| Create Personal access tokens              |         ✅         |             ✅             |             ✅             |               ✅                |         ✅          |         ✅          |
| View **all** projects                      |         ✅         |             ✅             |             ✅             |               ✅                |         ✅          |         ❌          |
| Create new projects                        |         ✅         |             ✅             |             ✅             |               ✅                |         ❌          |         ❌          |
| Create project previews                    |         ✅         | [✅ \*](#project-previews) | [✅ \*](#project-previews) |   [✅ \*](#project-previews)    |         ❌          |         ❌          |
| Edit **all** projects                      |         ✅         |             ✅             |             ✅             |               ❌                |         ❌          |         ❌          |
| Admin for **all** projects                 |         ✅         |             ❌             |             ❌             |               ❌                |         ❌          |         ❌          |
| Invite users to organization               |         ✅         |             ❌             |             ❌             |               ❌                |         ❌          |         ❌          |
| Manage organization access and permissions |         ✅         |             ❌             |             ❌             |               ❌                |         ❌          |         ❌          |

:::info

<a name="project-previews" class="hidden-anchor"></a>
Project previews created by Developers, Editors or Interactive Viewers will only
copy spaces/charts/dashboards from the source project they have access to.

:::

### Space Roles

There are three space roles: `Full Access`, `Can Edit`, `Can View`

Users with `Full Access` to a space can restrict and increase a user’s inherited project permissions in a space (e.g. you can make project editors into `can view` in a space). Space permissions determine which users can edit space contents (charts and dashboards), view the contents in a space, and change a space's settings:

- A user needs to have at least the `Can view` access level to a space to see that the space exists and to see the charts and dashboards inside it.
- A user needs to have the `Can edit` access level to a space to edit the content in the space (add/delete/rename charts and dashboards).
- A user needs to have the `Full access` access level to a space to manage access to the space and to edit the space details (name, description, etc.).

Space permissions don't otherwise control what users can do, or which data they can use to build their own content.

This means:

- a project viewer who has `Can edit` space permissions cannot get access to build or edit charts because Viewers don't have access to the Explore view
- an interactive viewer who is given `Can edit` space permissions can save content in that space but not in any other space (unless given `edit` access to another space)
- an editor who is given `Can view` space permissions cannot edit the content in that space, but they can create/edit content in other parts of the project (unless they're given `Can view` access).

| Action               | Full Access | Can Edit | Can View |
| :------------------- | :---------: | :------: | :------: |
| View space content   |     ✅      |    ✅    |    ✅    |
| Manage space content |     ✅      |    ✅    |    ❌    |
| Manage space access  |     ✅      |    ❌    |    ❌    |
| Manage space details |     ✅      |    ❌    |    ❌    |

## Allowed email domains to join organization automatically

<AllowedEmailDomains />

Commit message:

docs: adds space permissions info (#10208)
* adds space permissions info

* adds details about groups space permissions to the roles doc

* fixes typo

docs/docs/references/roles.mdx, after:

import AllowedEmailDomains from './../snippets/allowed-email-domains.mdx';
import AddUsersSpace from './assets/add-users-space.png';


# Roles and permissions

## Roles in your Lightdash instance

- Everybody in your organization will join as an `Organization Member` unless specified. For example, if I invite someone to a project as an editor, they will become an organization member with `editor` access to that project. If I invite someone to the **_organization_** as a `viewer`, then they will be an `organization viewer` (instead of an `organization member`).
- All organization members can create their own projects and will be the Project Admin for that project.
- Admins have access to all content (even content they haven't been explicitly invited to).

### Project Roles

Project Admins can invite users to their project and assign users or [groups](/references/groups.mdx) to roles in that project. Note that projects may also be
accessible by users with organization roles.

| Action                                                 | Project Admin | Project Developer | Project Editor | Project Interactive Viewer | Project Viewer |
| :----------------------------------------------------- | :-----------: | :---------------: | :------------: | :------------------------: | :------------: |
| View charts and dashboards                             |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ✅             |       ✅       |
| Export results visible in a chart to CSV               |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ✅             |       ✅       |
| Export results visible in a chart to Google Sheets     |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ✅             |       ✅       |
| Export results to CSV and override the limit           |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ✅             |       ❌       |
| Export results to Google Sheets and override the limit |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ✅             |       ❌       |
| View comments                                          |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ✅             |       ✅       |
| Create comments                                        |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ✅             |       ❌       |
| Use the explorer                                       |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ✅             |       ❌       |
| View underlying data                                   |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ✅             |       ❌       |
| Create/edit scheduled deliveries                       |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ✅             |       ❌       |
| Create/edit Syncs                                      |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ❌             |       ❌       |
| Create/edit charts and dashboards                      |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ✅       |             ❌             |       ❌       |
| Use the SQL runner                                     |      ✅       |        ✅         |       ❌       |             ❌             |       ❌       |
| Manage project access and permissions                  |      ✅       |        ❌         |       ❌       |             ❌             |       ❌       |
| Delete project                                         |      ✅       |        ❌         |       ❌       |             ❌             |       ❌       |
| Create project previews                                |      ✅       |        ❌         |       ❌       |             ❌             |       ❌       |

### Organization Roles

Organization Admins can assign roles to organization members, which gives access to all projects in the organization.

| Action                                     | Organization Admin |   Organization Developer   |    Organization Editor     | Organization Interactive Viewer | Organization Viewer | Organization Member |
| :----------------------------------------- | :----------------: | :------------------------: | :------------------------: | :-----------------------------: | :-----------------: | :-----------------: |
| Create Personal access tokens              |         ✅         |             ✅             |             ✅             |               ✅                |         ✅          |         ✅          |
| View **all** projects                      |         ✅         |             ✅             |             ✅             |               ✅                |         ✅          |         ❌          |
| Create new projects                        |         ✅         |             ✅             |             ✅             |               ✅                |         ❌          |         ❌          |
| Create project previews                    |         ✅         | [✅ \*](#project-previews) | [✅ \*](#project-previews) |   [✅ \*](#project-previews)    |         ❌          |         ❌          |
| Edit **all** projects                      |         ✅         |             ✅             |             ✅             |               ❌                |         ❌          |         ❌          |
| Admin for **all** projects                 |         ✅         |             ❌             |             ❌             |               ❌                |         ❌          |         ❌          |
| Invite users to organization               |         ✅         |             ❌             |             ❌             |               ❌                |         ❌          |         ❌          |
| Manage organization access and permissions |         ✅         |             ❌             |             ❌             |               ❌                |         ❌          |         ❌          |

:::info

<a name="project-previews" class="hidden-anchor"></a>
Project previews created by Developers, Editors or Interactive Viewers will only
copy spaces/charts/dashboards from the source project they have access to.

:::

### Space Roles

There are three space roles: `Full Access`, `Can Edit`, `Can View`

| Action               | Full Access | Can Edit | Can View |
| :------------------- | :---------: | :------: | :------: |
| View space content   |     ✅      |    ✅    |    ✅    |
| Manage space content |     ✅      |    ✅    |    ❌    |
| Manage space access  |     ✅      |    ❌    |    ❌    |
| Manage space details |     ✅      |    ❌    |    ❌    |

Users with `Full Access` to a space can restrict and increase a user’s inherited project permissions in a space (e.g. you can make project editors into `can view` in a space). Space permissions determine which users can edit space contents (charts and dashboards), view the contents in a space, and change a space's settings:

- A user needs to have at least the `Can view` access level to a space to see that the space exists and to see the charts and dashboards inside it.
- A user needs to have the `Can edit` access level to a space to edit the content in the space (add/delete/rename charts and dashboards).
- A user needs to have the `Full access` access level to a space to manage access to the space and to edit the space details (name, description, etc.).

Space permissions don't otherwise control what users can do, or which data they can use to build their own content.

This means:

- a project viewer who has `Can edit` space permissions cannot get access to build or edit charts because Viewers don't have access to the Explore view
- an interactive viewer who is given `Can edit` space permissions can save content in that space but not in any other space (unless given `edit` access to another space)
- an editor who is given `Can view` space permissions cannot edit the content in that space, but they can create/edit content in other parts of the project (unless they're given `Can view` access).

#### Adjusting space permissions

You can adjust an individual user's permissions, or the permissions of a group in a Space. 

<img
  src={AddUsersSpace}
  width="400"
  style={{ display: 'block', margin: '0 auto 20px auto' }}
/>

If a user is part of multiple groups that have been given access to the space, the user will inherit the highest level of access from their groups.

E.g. Priyanka is a `Project Interactive Viewer`. She is a member of the `Finance` group and the `Design` group. The `Finance` group is given `Can View` access to the space. The `Design` group is given `Can Edit` access to the space. Priyanka has `Can Edit` access to the space (inherited from the `Design` group).

You can override a user's group access by adjusting their specific user access. 

E.g. Priyanka is a `Project Interactive Viewer`. She is a member of the `Design` group. The `Design` group is given `Can Edit` access to the space. I set Priyanka's user access in the space to be `Can View`. Priyanka has `Can View` access to the space (her assigned user access to the space overrides her group access).

## Allowed email domains to join organization automatically

<AllowedEmailDomains />
