docs/docs/references/tables.mdx, before:

import TableGroupLabelImg from '../references/assets/table-group-label.png';

# Tables reference doc

You can run queries against the tables in your Lightdash project.

Tables are built from dbt models (either one, or many joined together).

---

## Adding Tables to your project

Tables come from dbt models that have been defined in your dbt project's schema.yml files.

If your dbt model has been defined in a .yml file, it will appear in Lightdash as a table.

For example, if we had this in our schema.yml files in dbt, we'd see a Table called `users` in Lightdash.

```yaml
version: 2

models:
  - name: users
```

You can read more about [adding Tables to Lightdash here](/guides/adding-tables-to-lightdash).

## Table configuration

You can customize your Tables in your dbt model's YAML file. Here's an example of the properties used in defining a Table:

```yaml
version: 2

models:
  - name: my_table
    meta:
      label: 'My Custom Table Name'
      order_fields_by: 'label'
      group_label: 'Revenue'
      sql_filter: ${date_dimension} > '2020-01-01'
      joins:
        - join: my_other_table
          sql_on: ${my_table.column_a} = ${my_other_table.column_a}
      required_attributes:
        is_admin: 'true'
```

Here are all of the properties you can customize:

| Property                                          | Value                                 | Note                                                                                                                                                 |
| ------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --- |
| label                                             | string                                | Custom label. This is what you'll see in Lightdash instead of the Table name.                                                                        |
| [order_fields_by](#order-fields-by)               | 'index' or 'label'                    | How the fields will be sorted in the sidebar. [Read more about the order rules in here](#order-fields-by)                                            |
| [joins](joins.mdx)                                | array                                 | Join logic to join other data models to the Table. [Read more about joins in here.](joins.mdx)                                                       |
| [metrics](metrics.mdx#2-using-the-model-meta-tag) | object                                | Model metrics. [Read more about model metrics in here](metrics.mdx#2-using-the-model-meta-tag)                                                       |
| [group_label](#group-label)                       | string                                | Group tables in the sidebar. [Read more about the group label in here](#group-label)                                                                 |
| [sql_filter](#sql-filter)                         | string                                | A permanent filter that will always be applied when querying this table directly. Read more about `sql_filter` [below](#sql-filter)                  |
| [sql_where](#sql-filter)                          | string                                | Alias for `sql_filter`                                                                                                                               |     |
| [required_attributes](#required-attributes)       | Object with { user_attribute, value } | Limits access to users with those attributes. [Read more about user attributes in here](./user-attributes.mdx)                                       |
| group_details                                     | Object with { label, description }    | Describes the groups for dimensions and metrics                                                                                                      |
| [required_filters](#required-filters)             | Array of {filter field: value}        | Dimension filters that will be applied when no other filter on those dimension exists. Read more about `required_filters` [below](#required-filters) |

### If you've added a new dbt model to your project, you need to do `dbt run` + `dbt refresh` before it will appear in Lightdash

Lightdash gets information about your data models from dbt.
But it gets information about the data **_generated_** by those data models from your data warehouse.

This means that if you add a new dbt model to your project or update a model so that you're making changes
to the table it generates, then you need to do two things before your changes will appear in Lightdash:

1. **Materialize the new table/changes to the table (using `dbt run`).**
   You basically want the data in your data warehouse to be the new
   table you're expecting. So you need to do `dbt run` to update the table from the data model you just changed.

2. **Click `dbt refresh` in Lightdash.**
   This will re-sync your dbt project in Lightdash so that any changes you made
   to your dbt models is shown in Lightdash (e.g. adding a new table).

### Order fields by

By default, the fields in your sidebar for any table will appear alphabetically (`order_fields_by: "label"`). Sometimes, you might not want your fields to appear alphabetically, but instead, in the same order as they are in your model's dbt .yml file. You can achieve this by setting the `order_fields_by` parameter in your table's meta tag to `index`, like this:

```yaml
version: 2

models:
  - name: my_table
    meta:
      order_fields_by: 'index'
    columns:
      - name: user_id
      - name: product_id
      - name: account_id
```

So, in the example above, the fields in the sidebar for "My Table" would appear in the order:

- user_id
- product_id
- account_id

Instead of being listed alphabetically.

Here are some other things worth mentioning about the `order_fields_by` parameter:

- By default, `order_fields_by` is set to `label`, which means that your fields will appear in the table listed alphabetically.
- Since metrics can be declared in multiple places within your .yml (as a dbt metric, in the model `meta` tag, under a dimension's `meta`), we force the following order on metrics if you set `order_fields_by` to `index`:

  - dbt metrics appear first
  - then, metrics defined in the model's `meta`
  - then, metrics defined in the dimensions' `meta`

- Group labels inherit the index of the first dimension that use them.

### Group label

If you set this property, the table will be grouped in the sidebar with other tables with the same group label.

The tables in your sidebar will appear in the following order:

- Group labels appear first, alphabetically
- Ungrouped tables appear after the grouped tables in the sidebar, alphabetically
- Tables within the groups are also ordered alphabetically

<img
  src={TableGroupLabelImg}
  width="300"
  style={{ display: 'block', margin: '0 auto 20px auto' }}
/>

### SQL filter

Use `sql_filter` to permanently filter the table for all queries made against it. `sql_filter` accepts a sql string that can reference

- `${TABLE}` the current table
- `${dimension_a}` a dimension from the current table
- `${table_b.dimension_b}` a dimension from a joined table

The filter will only be applied when querying this table directly. If the current table (Table A) is included via a join to another table (Table B) then the `sql_filter` for Table B will be applied but not for Table A.

### Required attributes

Lightdash can use [user attributes](./user-attributes.mdx) to limit some tables to some users.

In the example below, only users with `is_admin` attribute `true` can use the `payments` table. Users without access to this table will not see it on the `tables page` or the `explore page` when joined to other tables.

```
version: 2
models:
  - name: payments
    meta:
      required_attributes:
        is_admin: "true"
```

If a user without access to this table runs a query that contains this table, they will get a `Forbidden` error.

## Required Filters

Use `required_filters` to define filters on Dimensions that will be applied when no other user-defined filter on those Dimensions exists.
This allows to enforce a default filter on a Dimension when querying a table.
This defined `required_filters` will be replaced by any user-defined filter on the same Dimension making sure at least one filter is applied to the Dimension.

This is particularly useful when you want to enforce a default filter to save on query time and potential warehouse costs.

:::info
A required filter's field reference can't be changed, but its operator (is, is not, etc.) and value can be changed when querying the table.
:::

For example, the defined `required_filters` on the date Dimension will be in place unless there is another user-defined filter on the date Dimension when querying the orders table, like this:

```yaml
version: 2

models:
  - name: orders
    meta:
      required_filters:
        - date: 'inThePast 14 days'
    columns:
      - name: date
        description: 'Order date'
        meta:
          dimension:
            type: date
```

### If you have many filters in your list, they will be joined using `AND`

For example:

```yaml
version: 2
  - name: orders
    meta:
      required_filters:
        - date: 'inThePast 14 days'
        - status: "completed"
    columns:
      - name: date
        description: 'Order date'
        meta:
          dimension:
            type: date
      - name: status
        description: 'Order status - completed, pending, cancelled'
        meta:
          dimension:
            type: string
```

In the example above, the `orders` table will have a default filter of `date` in the past 14 days **and** `status` completed.

### Available filter types

| Type                          | Example (in English)                           | Example (as code)             |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| is                            | User name is equal to katie                    | `user_name: "katie"`          |
| is not                        | User name is not equal to katie                | `user_name: "!katie"`         |
| contains                      | User name contains katie                       | `user_name: "%katie%"`        |
| does not contain              | User name does not contain katie               | `user_name: "!%katie%"`       |
| starts with                   | User name starts with katie                    | `user_name: "katie%"`         |
| ends with                     | User name ends with katie                      | `user_name: "%katie"`         |
| is greater than (number)      | Number of orders is greater than 4             | `num_orders: "> 4"`           |
| in the past (date) (interval) | Date is before x (days / months / years)       | `date: "inThePast 14 months"` |
| in the next (date) (interval) | Date is after x (days / months / years)        | `date: "inTheNext 14 days"`   |
| is greater than or equal to   | Number of orders is greater than or equal to 4 | `num_orders: ">= 4"`          |
| is less than                  | Number of orders is less than 4                | `num_orders: "< 4"`           |
| is less than or equal to      | Number of orders is less than or equal to 4    | `num_orders: "<= 4"`          |
| is null                       | Status is `NULL`                               | `status: "null"`              |
| is not null                   | Status is not `NULL`                           | `status: "!null"`             |
| is [boolean]                  | Is complete is true                            | `is_complete: "true"`         |
| is not [boolean]              | Is complete is false or null                   | `is_complete: "!true"`        |

Commit message:

docs: sql filter join ammendment

docs/docs/references/tables.mdx, after:

import TableGroupLabelImg from '../references/assets/table-group-label.png';

# Tables reference doc

You can run queries against the tables in your Lightdash project.

Tables are built from dbt models (either one, or many joined together).

---

## Adding Tables to your project

Tables come from dbt models that have been defined in your dbt project's schema.yml files.

If your dbt model has been defined in a .yml file, it will appear in Lightdash as a table.

For example, if we had this in our schema.yml files in dbt, we'd see a Table called `users` in Lightdash.

```yaml
version: 2

models:
  - name: users
```

You can read more about [adding Tables to Lightdash here](/guides/adding-tables-to-lightdash).

## Table configuration

You can customize your Tables in your dbt model's YAML file. Here's an example of the properties used in defining a Table:

```yaml
version: 2

models:
  - name: my_table
    meta:
      label: 'My Custom Table Name'
      order_fields_by: 'label'
      group_label: 'Revenue'
      sql_filter: ${date_dimension} > '2020-01-01'
      joins:
        - join: my_other_table
          sql_on: ${my_table.column_a} = ${my_other_table.column_a}
      required_attributes:
        is_admin: 'true'
```

Here are all of the properties you can customize:

| Property                                          | Value                                 | Note                                                                                                                                                 |
| ------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --- |
| label                                             | string                                | Custom label. This is what you'll see in Lightdash instead of the Table name.                                                                        |
| [order_fields_by](#order-fields-by)               | 'index' or 'label'                    | How the fields will be sorted in the sidebar. [Read more about the order rules in here](#order-fields-by)                                            |
| [joins](joins.mdx)                                | array                                 | Join logic to join other data models to the Table. [Read more about joins in here.](joins.mdx)                                                       |
| [metrics](metrics.mdx#2-using-the-model-meta-tag) | object                                | Model metrics. [Read more about model metrics in here](metrics.mdx#2-using-the-model-meta-tag)                                                       |
| [group_label](#group-label)                       | string                                | Group tables in the sidebar. [Read more about the group label in here](#group-label)                                                                 |
| [sql_filter](#sql-filter)                         | string                                | A permanent filter that will always be applied when querying this table directly. Read more about `sql_filter` [below](#sql-filter)                  |
| [sql_where](#sql-filter)                          | string                                | Alias for `sql_filter`                                                                                                                               |     |
| [required_attributes](#required-attributes)       | Object with { user_attribute, value } | Limits access to users with those attributes. [Read more about user attributes in here](./user-attributes.mdx)                                       |
| group_details                                     | Object with { label, description }    | Describes the groups for dimensions and metrics                                                                                                      |
| [required_filters](#required-filters)             | Array of {filter field: value}        | Dimension filters that will be applied when no other filter on those dimension exists. Read more about `required_filters` [below](#required-filters) |

### If you've added a new dbt model to your project, you need to do `dbt run` + `dbt refresh` before it will appear in Lightdash

Lightdash gets information about your data models from dbt.
But it gets information about the data **_generated_** by those data models from your data warehouse.

This means that if you add a new dbt model to your project or update a model so that you're making changes
to the table it generates, then you need to do two things before your changes will appear in Lightdash:

1. **Materialize the new table/changes to the table (using `dbt run`).**
   You basically want the data in your data warehouse to be the new
   table you're expecting. So you need to do `dbt run` to update the table from the data model you just changed.

2. **Click `dbt refresh` in Lightdash.**
   This will re-sync your dbt project in Lightdash so that any changes you made
   to your dbt models is shown in Lightdash (e.g. adding a new table).

### Order fields by

By default, the fields in your sidebar for any table will appear alphabetically (`order_fields_by: "label"`). Sometimes, you might not want your fields to appear alphabetically, but instead, in the same order as they are in your model's dbt .yml file. You can achieve this by setting the `order_fields_by` parameter in your table's meta tag to `index`, like this:

```yaml
version: 2

models:
  - name: my_table
    meta:
      order_fields_by: 'index'
    columns:
      - name: user_id
      - name: product_id
      - name: account_id
```

So, in the example above, the fields in the sidebar for "My Table" would appear in the order:

- user_id
- product_id
- account_id

Instead of being listed alphabetically.

Here are some other things worth mentioning about the `order_fields_by` parameter:

- By default, `order_fields_by` is set to `label`, which means that your fields will appear in the table listed alphabetically.
- Since metrics can be declared in multiple places within your .yml (as a dbt metric, in the model `meta` tag, under a dimension's `meta`), we force the following order on metrics if you set `order_fields_by` to `index`:

  - dbt metrics appear first
  - then, metrics defined in the model's `meta`
  - then, metrics defined in the dimensions' `meta`

- Group labels inherit the index of the first dimension that use them.

### Group label

If you set this property, the table will be grouped in the sidebar with other tables with the same group label.

The tables in your sidebar will appear in the following order:

- Group labels appear first, alphabetically
- Ungrouped tables appear after the grouped tables in the sidebar, alphabetically
- Tables within the groups are also ordered alphabetically

<img
  src={TableGroupLabelImg}
  width="300"
  style={{ display: 'block', margin: '0 auto 20px auto' }}
/>

### SQL filter

Use `sql_filter` to permanently filter the table for all queries made against it. `sql_filter` accepts a sql string that can reference

- `${TABLE}` the current table
- `${dimension_a}` a dimension from the current table
- `${table_b.dimension_b}` a dimension from a joined table

:::info

`sql_filter` will only be applied when querying tables directly. For example: If Table A includes another table (Table B) with `sql_filter` applied to it, then only the `sql_filter` from Table A will be applied when querying Table A directly. The `sql_filter` from Table B _will not_ be applied.

:::

:::info

If you reference a dimension from a joined table in your `sql_filter`, the referenced table will be joined automatically. For example: If you reference `${table_b.dimension_b}` in Table A's `sql_filter`, then Table B will be joined to Table A automatically.

:::

### Required attributes

Lightdash can use [user attributes](./user-attributes.mdx) to limit some tables to some users.

In the example below, only users with `is_admin` attribute `true` can use the `payments` table. Users without access to this table will not see it on the `tables page` or the `explore page` when joined to other tables.

```
version: 2
models:
  - name: payments
    meta:
      required_attributes:
        is_admin: "true"
```

If a user without access to this table runs a query that contains this table, they will get a `Forbidden` error.

## Required Filters

Use `required_filters` to define filters on Dimensions that will be applied when no other user-defined filter on those Dimensions exists.
This allows to enforce a default filter on a Dimension when querying a table.
This defined `required_filters` will be replaced by any user-defined filter on the same Dimension making sure at least one filter is applied to the Dimension.

This is particularly useful when you want to enforce a default filter to save on query time and potential warehouse costs.

:::info
A required filter's field reference can't be changed, but its operator (is, is not, etc.) and value can be changed when querying the table.
:::

For example, the defined `required_filters` on the date Dimension will be in place unless there is another user-defined filter on the date Dimension when querying the orders table, like this:

```yaml
version: 2

models:
  - name: orders
    meta:
      required_filters:
        - date: 'inThePast 14 days'
    columns:
      - name: date
        description: 'Order date'
        meta:
          dimension:
            type: date
```

### If you have many filters in your list, they will be joined using `AND`

For example:

```yaml
version: 2
  - name: orders
    meta:
      required_filters:
        - date: 'inThePast 14 days'
        - status: "completed"
    columns:
      - name: date
        description: 'Order date'
        meta:
          dimension:
            type: date
      - name: status
        description: 'Order status - completed, pending, cancelled'
        meta:
          dimension:
            type: string
```

In the example above, the `orders` table will have a default filter of `date` in the past 14 days **and** `status` completed.

### Available filter types

| Type                          | Example (in English)                           | Example (as code)             |
| ----------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------- |
| is                            | User name is equal to katie                    | `user_name: "katie"`          |
| is not                        | User name is not equal to katie                | `user_name: "!katie"`         |
| contains                      | User name contains katie                       | `user_name: "%katie%"`        |
| does not contain              | User name does not contain katie               | `user_name: "!%katie%"`       |
| starts with                   | User name starts with katie                    | `user_name: "katie%"`         |
| ends with                     | User name ends with katie                      | `user_name: "%katie"`         |
| is greater than (number)      | Number of orders is greater than 4             | `num_orders: "> 4"`           |
| in the past (date) (interval) | Date is before x (days / months / years)       | `date: "inThePast 14 months"` |
| in the next (date) (interval) | Date is after x (days / months / years)        | `date: "inTheNext 14 days"`   |
| is greater than or equal to   | Number of orders is greater than or equal to 4 | `num_orders: ">= 4"`          |
| is less than                  | Number of orders is less than 4                | `num_orders: "< 4"`           |
| is less than or equal to      | Number of orders is less than or equal to 4    | `num_orders: "<= 4"`          |
| is null                       | Status is `NULL`                               | `status: "null"`              |
| is not null                   | Status is not `NULL`                           | `status: "!null"`             |
| is [boolean]                  | Is complete is true                            | `is_complete: "true"`         |
| is not [boolean]              | Is complete is false or null                   | `is_complete: "!true"`        |
