docs/docs/self-host/customize-deployment/use-sso-login-for-self-hosted-lightdash.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_label: SSO and auth
---

# Configure Lightdash to use SSO for authentication

## Password

To enforce SSO, it's recommended to disable password authentication. This can be done by setting the following environment variable:

| Variable                               | Description                                          | Required? | Default |
| -------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | --------- | ------- |
| `AUTH_DISABLE_PASSWORD_AUTHENTICATION` | If `"true"` disables signing in with plain passwords |           | false   |

## Okta

Lightdash supports Okta as an authentication provider. The integration uses OpenID Connect (OIDC) to authenticate
users and JIT provisioning to create users in Lightdash when they first log in.

### Creating an Okta application

In the Okta admin panel, navigate to **Applications** and click **Create App Integration**, choose the following
settings:

- **Sign-in method**: OIDC - OpenID Connect
- **Application type**: Web application

On the following page you'll need to use the following settings, replace `{{ lightdash_url }}` with the URL of your
Lightdash instance. For example if you normally access Lightdash at `https://lightdash.example.com/login` then you
should use `https://lightdash.example.com` as your `{{ lightdash_url }}`.

- **Grant type**: Authorization Code
- **Sign-in redirect URIs**: `{{ lightdash_url }}/api/v1/oauth/redirect/okta`
- **Sign-out redirect URIs**: `{{ lightdash_url }}`
- **Controlled access**: Select who can access this application

Hit **Save** and you'll be taken to the application settings page. For the optimal user experience, we recommend
allowing Okta to initiate the login flow. To do this, click **Edit** next to **General Settings** and set:

- **Login initiated by**: App and Okta Sign-in Page
- **Application visibility**: Display application icon to users
- **Login flow**: Redirect to app to initiate login (OIDC Compliant)
- **Initiate login URI**: `{{ lightdash_url }}/api/v1/login/okta`

Hit **Save** to finish.

### Okta configuration variables

From the application settings page, you'll need to copy the following values:

- **Client ID**
- **Client secret**

You'll also need your **Okta domain**, which is the first part of your okta URL. For example if your Okta URL is
https://dev-123456.okta.com then your Okta domain is `dev-123456.okta.com`.

Finally, you need the **Issuer URI**. This is the URL of your Okta authorization server. You can use
your [Org authorization server](https://developer.okta.com/docs/concepts/auth-servers/#org-authorization-server)
which uses `https://dev-123456.okta.com` as your issuer or select a custom authorization server. To find the issuer URI
for a custom authorization server navigate to **API** > **Authorization Servers** and click on the authorization
server and note the **Issuer URI** and **Name** of the authorization server. For example the `default` authorization
server has an issuer URI of `https://dev-123456.okta.com/oauth2/default`.

#### Groups & Okta

If you want to use groups to control access to Lightdash, you'll need to configure Okta and Lightdash to support this.

If you're **not** using a custom authorization server ID:

- on `OpenID Connect ID Token` section in the Okta application settings, add `groups` to the `Groups claim` field, by setting a Groups claims type to `Filter` and a Filter to match expression to `.*`

If you're using a custom authorization server ID:

- you don't need to set the `AUTH_OKTA_EXTRA_SCOPES` environment variable
- on the Authorization Server settings, add claim `groups`, value type `Groups`, matches regex `.*`

### Configuring Lightdash for Okta

You'll need to set the following environment variables in your Lightdash deployment:

| Variable                            | Description                                                                                        | Required? |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| `AUTH_OKTA_DOMAIN`                  | The `{{ okta_domain }}`. Should not include `https://`                                             | ✅        |
| `AUTH_OKTA_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID`         | The **Client ID** copied from the application settings in okta                                     | ✅        |
| `AUTH_OKTA_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET`     | The **Client secret** copied from the application settings in okta                                 | ✅        |
| `AUTH_OKTA_OAUTH_ISSUER`            | The **Issuer URI** copied from the authorization server. Should include `https://`                 | ✅        |
| `AUTH_OKTA_AUTHORIZATION_SERVER_ID` | Optional. The **Name** of a custom authorization server if not using the org authorization server. |           |
| `AUTH_OKTA_EXTRA_SCOPES`            | Optional. The extra **scopes** (e.g. "groups") when not using a custom authorization server        |           |

### Enable Automatic Assignment of Okta Users to Groups in Lightdash

Okta users will automatically be assigned to the same groups in Lightdash as they are in Okta if you have [configured Okta to share groups with Lightdash](../../references/groups.mdx#using-okta-to-manage-groups-in-lightdash). To enable this functionality, ensure the following environment variable is set:

| Variable                 | Description                               | Required? |
| ------------------------ | ----------------------------------------- | --------- |
| `AUTH_ENABLE_GROUP_SYNC` | If `"true"` enables group sync from Okta. |           |

read more about [Using OKTA to manage groups in Lightdash](/references/groups/#using-okta-to-manage-groups-in-lightdash)

## Google

To enable Google Single Sign On (SSO) you'll need to follow these instructions to
[Create the OAuth web client ID](https://support.google.com/workspacemigrate/answer/9222992?hl=en).
Once you reach **Step 13** to configure the client you'll need to enter the following details:

- Authorized JavaScript Origins: `https://{{ lightdash_domain }}`
- Authorized redirect URIs: `https://{{ lightdash_domain }}/api/v1/oauth/redirect/google`

Where `{{ lightdash_domain }}` is the domain you use to sign in to Lightdash such as `mycompany.lightdash.com`

These environment variables must be provided to Lightdash to enable you to control Single Sign On (SSO) functionality for Google

| Variable                           | Description                                 | Required? | Default |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | --------- | ------- |
| `AUTH_GOOGLE_ENABLED`              | Required to be set to `true` for Google SSO | ✅        |         |
| `AUTH_GOOGLE_OAUTH2_CLIENT_ID`     | Required see instructions above             | ✅        |         |
| `AUTH_GOOGLE_OAUTH2_CLIENT_SECRET` | Required see instructions above             | ✅        |         |

## One Login

These variables enable you to control Single Sign On (SSO) functionality for One Login

| Variable                             | Description                | Required? | Default |
| ------------------------------------ | -------------------------- | --------- | ------- |
| `AUTH_ONE_LOGIN_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID`     | Required for One Login SSO | ✅        |         |
| `AUTH_ONE_LOGIN_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET` | Required for One Login SSO | ✅        |         |
| `AUTH_ONE_LOGIN_OAUTH_ISSUER`        | Required for One Login SSO | ✅        |         |

## Azure Active Directory

### Creating an Azure AD application

In the admin panel, navigate to **App Registrations** and click **New registration**, choose the following
settings for the redirect URI:

- **Type**: Web
- **URI**: `{{ lightdash_url }}/api/v1/oauth/redirect/azuread`

On the following page you'll need to use the following settings, replace `{{ lightdash_url }}` with the URL of your
Lightdash instance. For example if you normally access Lightdash at `https://lightdash.example.com/login` then you
should use `https://lightdash.example.com` as your `{{ lightdash_url }}`.

Hit **Register** and you'll be taken to the application settings page. Copy the "Application (client) ID" and "Directory
(tenant) ID" values as you'll need them later.

In the left hand menu, navigate to **Certificates & secrets** and click **New client secret**. Give the secret a
description and choose an expiry time. Hit **Add** and you'll be shown the secret value. Copy this value as you'll
need it later.

### Configuring Lightdash for Azure AD

These variables enable you to control Single Sign On (SSO) functionality for Azure Active Directory.

| Variable                               | Description           | Required? | Default |
| -------------------------------------- | --------------------- | --------- | ------- |
| `AUTH_AZURE_AD_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID`        | Required for Azure AD | ✅        |         |
| `AUTH_AZURE_AD_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET`    | Required for Azure AD | ✅        |         |
| `AUTH_AZURE_AD_OAUTH_TENANT_ID`        | Required for Azure AD | ✅        |         |
| `AUTH_AZURE_AD_OIDC_METADATA_ENDPOINT` | Optional for Azure AD |           |         |
| `AUTH_AZURE_AD_X509_CERT_PATH`         | Optional for Azure AD |           |         |
| `AUTH_AZURE_AD_X509_CERT`              | Optional for Azure AD |           |         |
| `AUTH_AZURE_AD_PRIVATE_KEY_PATH`       | Optional for Azure AD |           |         |
| `AUTH_AZURE_AD_PRIVATE_KEY`            | Optional for Azure AD |           |         |

## OpenID Connect

Lightdash supports OpenID Connect-compliant SSO providers, via our configurable OIDC connector.

### Configuring Lightdash for OpenID Connect

These variables enable you to control Single Sign On (SSO) functionality for a generic OpenID Connect provider.

| Variable                          | Description                                                           | Required? | Default               |
| --------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- | --------------------- |
| `AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_ID`             |                                                                       | ✅        |                       |
| `AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET`         | Required unless AUTH_METHOD is `private_key_jwt`                      |           |                       |
| `AUTH_OIDC_METADATA_DOCUMENT_URL` | [URL to OIDC metadata discovery endpoint][providerconfrequest]        | ✅        |                       |
| `AUTH_OIDC_AUTH_METHOD`           | `client_secret_basic` or `private_key_jwt`                            |           | `client_secret_basic` |
| `AUTH_OIDC_X509_CERT`             | PEM-encoded content of a public key certificate for `private_key_jwt` |           |                       |
| `AUTH_OIDC_PRIVATE_KEY`           | PEM-encoded content of a private key file for `private_key_jwt`       |           |                       |
| `AUTH_OIDC_X509_CERT_PATH`        | Path to a PEM-encoded public key certificate for `private_key_jwt`    |           |                       |
| `AUTH_OIDC_PRIVATE_KEY_PATH`      | Path to a PEM-encoded private key for `private_key_jwt`               |           |                       |
| `AUTH_OIDC_SCOPES`                | List of space-delimited OIDC scopes                                   |           |                       |

[providerconfrequest]: https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfigurationRequest

Commit message:

docs: remove forgot password doc (#11195)

docs/docs/self-host/customize-deployment/use-sso-login-for-self-hosted-lightdash.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_label: SSO and auth
---

# Configure Lightdash to use passwords or SSO for authentication

## Passwords

We recommend [adding the SMTP environment variables](/references/environmentVariables#smtp-environment-variables) so Lightdash can display a `Forgot your password?` button in the login page and send emails to reset passwords.

You can override a user password in just a few steps:

1. Open the bash terminal for the docker Lightdash container
2. Override user password with this command:

```shell
cd ./packages/backend && node ./dist/overrideUserPassword.js <user email> <new password>
```

## SSO setup

To enforce SSO, it's recommended to disable password authentication. This can be done by setting the following environment variable:

| Variable                               | Description                                          | Required? | Default |
| -------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- | --------- | ------- |
| `AUTH_DISABLE_PASSWORD_AUTHENTICATION` | If `"true"` disables signing in with plain passwords |           | false   |

## Okta

Lightdash supports Okta as an authentication provider. The integration uses OpenID Connect (OIDC) to authenticate
users and JIT provisioning to create users in Lightdash when they first log in.

### Creating an Okta application

In the Okta admin panel, navigate to **Applications** and click **Create App Integration**, choose the following
settings:

- **Sign-in method**: OIDC - OpenID Connect
- **Application type**: Web application

On the following page you'll need to use the following settings, replace `{{ lightdash_url }}` with the URL of your
Lightdash instance. For example if you normally access Lightdash at `https://lightdash.example.com/login` then you
should use `https://lightdash.example.com` as your `{{ lightdash_url }}`.

- **Grant type**: Authorization Code
- **Sign-in redirect URIs**: `{{ lightdash_url }}/api/v1/oauth/redirect/okta`
- **Sign-out redirect URIs**: `{{ lightdash_url }}`
- **Controlled access**: Select who can access this application

Hit **Save** and you'll be taken to the application settings page. For the optimal user experience, we recommend
allowing Okta to initiate the login flow. To do this, click **Edit** next to **General Settings** and set:

- **Login initiated by**: App and Okta Sign-in Page
- **Application visibility**: Display application icon to users
- **Login flow**: Redirect to app to initiate login (OIDC Compliant)
- **Initiate login URI**: `{{ lightdash_url }}/api/v1/login/okta`

Hit **Save** to finish.

### Okta configuration variables

From the application settings page, you'll need to copy the following values:

- **Client ID**
- **Client secret**

You'll also need your **Okta domain**, which is the first part of your okta URL. For example if your Okta URL is
https://dev-123456.okta.com then your Okta domain is `dev-123456.okta.com`.

Finally, you need the **Issuer URI**. This is the URL of your Okta authorization server. You can use
your [Org authorization server](https://developer.okta.com/docs/concepts/auth-servers/#org-authorization-server)
which uses `https://dev-123456.okta.com` as your issuer or select a custom authorization server. To find the issuer URI
for a custom authorization server navigate to **API** > **Authorization Servers** and click on the authorization
server and note the **Issuer URI** and **Name** of the authorization server. For example the `default` authorization
server has an issuer URI of `https://dev-123456.okta.com/oauth2/default`.

#### Groups & Okta

If you want to use groups to control access to Lightdash, you'll need to configure Okta and Lightdash to support this.

If you're **not** using a custom authorization server ID:

- on `OpenID Connect ID Token` section in the Okta application settings, add `groups` to the `Groups claim` field, by setting a Groups claims type to `Filter` and a Filter to match expression to `.*`

If you're using a custom authorization server ID:

- you don't need to set the `AUTH_OKTA_EXTRA_SCOPES` environment variable
- on the Authorization Server settings, add claim `groups`, value type `Groups`, matches regex `.*`

### Configuring Lightdash for Okta

You'll need to set the following environment variables in your Lightdash deployment:

| Variable                            | Description                                                                                        | Required? |
| ----------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| `AUTH_OKTA_DOMAIN`                  | The `{{ okta_domain }}`. Should not include `https://`                                             | ✅        |
| `AUTH_OKTA_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID`         | The **Client ID** copied from the application settings in okta                                     | ✅        |
| `AUTH_OKTA_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET`     | The **Client secret** copied from the application settings in okta                                 | ✅        |
| `AUTH_OKTA_OAUTH_ISSUER`            | The **Issuer URI** copied from the authorization server. Should include `https://`                 | ✅        |
| `AUTH_OKTA_AUTHORIZATION_SERVER_ID` | Optional. The **Name** of a custom authorization server if not using the org authorization server. |           |
| `AUTH_OKTA_EXTRA_SCOPES`            | Optional. The extra **scopes** (e.g. "groups") when not using a custom authorization server        |           |

### Enable Automatic Assignment of Okta Users to Groups in Lightdash

Okta users will automatically be assigned to the same groups in Lightdash as they are in Okta if you have [configured Okta to share groups with Lightdash](../../references/groups.mdx#using-okta-to-manage-groups-in-lightdash). To enable this functionality, ensure the following environment variable is set:

| Variable                 | Description                               | Required? |
| ------------------------ | ----------------------------------------- | --------- |
| `AUTH_ENABLE_GROUP_SYNC` | If `"true"` enables group sync from Okta. |           |

read more about [Using OKTA to manage groups in Lightdash](/references/groups/#using-okta-to-manage-groups-in-lightdash)

## Google

To enable Google Single Sign On (SSO) you'll need to follow these instructions to
[Create the OAuth web client ID](https://support.google.com/workspacemigrate/answer/9222992?hl=en).
Once you reach **Step 13** to configure the client you'll need to enter the following details:

- Authorized JavaScript Origins: `https://{{ lightdash_domain }}`
- Authorized redirect URIs: `https://{{ lightdash_domain }}/api/v1/oauth/redirect/google`

Where `{{ lightdash_domain }}` is the domain you use to sign in to Lightdash such as `mycompany.lightdash.com`

These environment variables must be provided to Lightdash to enable you to control Single Sign On (SSO) functionality for Google

| Variable                           | Description                                 | Required? | Default |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------- | --------- | ------- |
| `AUTH_GOOGLE_ENABLED`              | Required to be set to `true` for Google SSO | ✅        |         |
| `AUTH_GOOGLE_OAUTH2_CLIENT_ID`     | Required see instructions above             | ✅        |         |
| `AUTH_GOOGLE_OAUTH2_CLIENT_SECRET` | Required see instructions above             | ✅        |         |

## One Login

These variables enable you to control Single Sign On (SSO) functionality for One Login

| Variable                             | Description                | Required? | Default |
| ------------------------------------ | -------------------------- | --------- | ------- |
| `AUTH_ONE_LOGIN_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID`     | Required for One Login SSO | ✅        |         |
| `AUTH_ONE_LOGIN_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET` | Required for One Login SSO | ✅        |         |
| `AUTH_ONE_LOGIN_OAUTH_ISSUER`        | Required for One Login SSO | ✅        |         |

## Azure Active Directory

### Creating an Azure AD application

In the admin panel, navigate to **App Registrations** and click **New registration**, choose the following
settings for the redirect URI:

- **Type**: Web
- **URI**: `{{ lightdash_url }}/api/v1/oauth/redirect/azuread`

On the following page you'll need to use the following settings, replace `{{ lightdash_url }}` with the URL of your
Lightdash instance. For example if you normally access Lightdash at `https://lightdash.example.com/login` then you
should use `https://lightdash.example.com` as your `{{ lightdash_url }}`.

Hit **Register** and you'll be taken to the application settings page. Copy the "Application (client) ID" and "Directory
(tenant) ID" values as you'll need them later.

In the left hand menu, navigate to **Certificates & secrets** and click **New client secret**. Give the secret a
description and choose an expiry time. Hit **Add** and you'll be shown the secret value. Copy this value as you'll
need it later.

### Configuring Lightdash for Azure AD

These variables enable you to control Single Sign On (SSO) functionality for Azure Active Directory.

| Variable                               | Description           | Required? | Default |
| -------------------------------------- | --------------------- | --------- | ------- |
| `AUTH_AZURE_AD_OAUTH_CLIENT_ID`        | Required for Azure AD | ✅        |         |
| `AUTH_AZURE_AD_OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET`    | Required for Azure AD | ✅        |         |
| `AUTH_AZURE_AD_OAUTH_TENANT_ID`        | Required for Azure AD | ✅        |         |
| `AUTH_AZURE_AD_OIDC_METADATA_ENDPOINT` | Optional for Azure AD |           |         |
| `AUTH_AZURE_AD_X509_CERT_PATH`         | Optional for Azure AD |           |         |
| `AUTH_AZURE_AD_X509_CERT`              | Optional for Azure AD |           |         |
| `AUTH_AZURE_AD_PRIVATE_KEY_PATH`       | Optional for Azure AD |           |         |
| `AUTH_AZURE_AD_PRIVATE_KEY`            | Optional for Azure AD |           |         |

## OpenID Connect

Lightdash supports OpenID Connect-compliant SSO providers, via our configurable OIDC connector.

### Configuring Lightdash for OpenID Connect

These variables enable you to control Single Sign On (SSO) functionality for a generic OpenID Connect provider.

| Variable                          | Description                                                           | Required? | Default               |
| --------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- | --------------------- |
| `AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_ID`             |                                                                       | ✅        |                       |
| `AUTH_OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET`         | Required unless AUTH_METHOD is `private_key_jwt`                      |           |                       |
| `AUTH_OIDC_METADATA_DOCUMENT_URL` | [URL to OIDC metadata discovery endpoint][providerconfrequest]        | ✅        |                       |
| `AUTH_OIDC_AUTH_METHOD`           | `client_secret_basic` or `private_key_jwt`                            |           | `client_secret_basic` |
| `AUTH_OIDC_X509_CERT`             | PEM-encoded content of a public key certificate for `private_key_jwt` |           |                       |
| `AUTH_OIDC_PRIVATE_KEY`           | PEM-encoded content of a private key file for `private_key_jwt`       |           |                       |
| `AUTH_OIDC_X509_CERT_PATH`        | Path to a PEM-encoded public key certificate for `private_key_jwt`    |           |                       |
| `AUTH_OIDC_PRIVATE_KEY_PATH`      | Path to a PEM-encoded private key for `private_key_jwt`               |           |                       |
| `AUTH_OIDC_SCOPES`                | List of space-delimited OIDC scopes                                   |           |                       |

[providerconfrequest]: https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html#ProviderConfigurationRequest
