docs/docs/guides/cli/cli-authentication.mdx, before:

import PersonalAccessToken from './assets/personal-access-token.png';

# Authenticating your CLI (login)

## Login

<details>
  <summary>1. If you use your email + password in the browser, login with your email and password.</summary>
  To login to your Lightdash instance run the following command and provide your login email and password:

  ```shell
  lightdash login https://my-lightdash.domain.com
  ```

where `https://my-lightdash.domain.com` is the address for your running Lightdash instance. For example Lightdash
cloud users in the US would type `lightdash login https://app.lightdash.cloud` if you're in Europe you'd type
`lightdash login https://eu1.lightdash.com`.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>2. If you use single sign-on (SSO) in the browser, login with a personal access token.</summary>
  First, you'll need to create a new personal access token in the UI by going to Settings > Personal Access Tokens. 
  You can't use an existing personal access token! You have to create a new one just for yourself.  

  <img src={PersonalAccessToken} width="1304" height="517" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

  Then, run the following command in your project:

  ```shell
  lightdash login https://my-lightdash.domain.com --token
  ```

where `https://my-lightdash.domain.com` is the address for your running Lightdash instance. For example Lightdash
cloud users in the US would type `lightdash login https://app.lightdash.cloud` if you're in Europe you'd type
`lightdash login https://eu1.lightdash.com`.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>3. If you're running in a CI/CD pipeline, login with environment variables</summary>

You can use the following environment variables to authenticate yourself on each command:

- **LIGHTDASH_API_KEY** a personal access token you can generate in the app under the user settings
- **LIGHTDASH_URL** address for your running Lightdash instance

Example:

  ```shell
  LIGHTDASH_API_KEY=946fedb74003405646867dcacf1ad345 LIGHTDASH_URL="https://app.lightdash.cloud" lightdash preview
  ```

</details>


## Set active project

When you login you'll be asked to set an active project. You can change your active project by running:

```shell
lightdash config set-project
```

Or you can use the `LIGHTDASH_PROJECT` environment variable to indicate what project UUID the command should use.

Example:

```shell
LIGHTDASH_PROJECT="3675b69e-8324-4110-bdca-059031aa8da3" lightdash deploy
```

Commit message:

docs: update cli docs (#3298)
* updates titles and subheadings

* adds deploy automation to deploy doc

* updates image and instructions

* adds instructions with existing action in repo

* updates file name

* adds instructions for adding profiles.yml files

* updates sidebar;

* updates image links

* updates spacing

* removes details for other warehouses to look for bug

* updates image link

* removes toggles to try to find bug;

* adds toggles back in

* fix links

* updates instructions

* adds info on bigquery private key docs

* updates google credentials bit of deploy docs

* updates bigquery profiles.yml

* updates google oauth docs

* removes fatal project loccation error

* moves update in sidebar

* updates authentication docs

* adds context on active project

* fixes cli path

docs/docs/guides/cli/cli-authentication.mdx, after:

import PersonalAccessToken from './assets/personal-access-token.png';

# Authenticating your CLI (login)

## Login

<details>
  <summary>1. If you use your email + password in the browser, login with your email and password.</summary>
  To login to your Lightdash instance run the following command and provide your login email and password:

  ```shell
  lightdash login https://my-lightdash.domain.com
  ```

where `https://my-lightdash.domain.com` is the address for your running Lightdash instance. For example Lightdash
cloud users in the US would type `lightdash login https://app.lightdash.cloud` if you're in Europe you'd type
`lightdash login https://eu1.lightdash.com`.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>2. If you use single sign-on (SSO) in the browser, login with a personal access token.</summary>
  First, you'll need to create a new personal access token in the UI by going to Settings > Personal Access Tokens. 
  You can't use an existing personal access token! You have to create a new one just for yourself.  

  <img src={PersonalAccessToken} width="1304" height="517" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

  Then, run the following command in your project:

  ```shell
  lightdash login https://my-lightdash.domain.com --token
  ```

where `https://my-lightdash.domain.com` is the address for your running Lightdash instance. For example Lightdash
cloud users in the US would type `lightdash login https://app.lightdash.cloud` if you're in Europe you'd type
`lightdash login https://eu1.lightdash.com`.

</details>

<details>
  <summary>3. If you're running in a CI/CD pipeline, login with environment variables</summary>

You can use the following environment variables to authenticate yourself on each command:

- **LIGHTDASH_API_KEY** a personal access token you can generate in the app under the user settings
- **LIGHTDASH_URL** address for your running Lightdash instance

Example:

  ```shell
  LIGHTDASH_API_KEY=946fedb74003405646867dcacf1ad345 LIGHTDASH_URL="https://app.lightdash.cloud" lightdash preview
  ```

</details>


## Set active project

When you login you'll be asked to set an active project. 

Your active project is just the one that you're working on/developing in. Your organization might just have one project, so that makes your decision easy!

You can change your active project by running:

```shell
lightdash config set-project
```

Or you can use the `LIGHTDASH_PROJECT` environment variable to indicate what project UUID the command should use.

Example:

```shell
LIGHTDASH_PROJECT="3675b69e-8324-4110-bdca-059031aa8da3" lightdash deploy
```

## Now that you've logged in, you're ready to use the CLI!

You can see all of the actions available on the CLI by typing this in your terminal:

```shell
lightdash
```

Some of our favourites are:
- [Automatically generating .yml for your dbt models using `lightdash generate`](/guides/cli/how-to-auto-generate-schema-files.mdx)
- [Testing your changes with developer previews using `lightdash preview`](/guides/cli/how-to-use-lightdash-preview.mdx)
- [Deploying your changes to production using `lightdash deploy`](/guides/cli/how-to-use-lightdash-deploy.mdx)
