docs/docs/guides/exploring-your-content.mdx, before:

import HomeButton from './assets/home-button.png';
import HomePage from './assets/home-page.png';
import BrowseButton from './assets/browse-button.png';
import SearchBar from './assets/search-bar.png';
import ExploreFromHere from './assets/explore-from-here.jpg';
import SelectTable from './assets/select-table.jpg';
import UnderlyingData from './assets/underlying-data.jpg';

# Exploring your content

## Browsing the saved charts and dashboards in your project

The easiest way to get started in Lightdash is to check out the saved charts and dashboards that your team's already made. You can see a list of some of this content on your homepage as soon as you land in Lightdash. 

<img src={HomePage} width="790" height="593" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

You can always get back to your homepage by clicking on the Lightdash icon in the top-left corner of your screen.

<img src={HomeButton} width="416" height="113" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

You can also browse the lists of all of the saved charts, dashboards, and Spaces that you and your teammates have made in your project by clicking on `Browse` in your navbar. 

<img src={BrowseButton} width="412" height="241" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

## Using the search bar

If you already know what you're looking for, then you can use the search bar to search through all of the content in your Lightdash project. Just click on `search` in the navbar, or click `cmd + K` to open the search bar.

<img src={SearchBar} width="980" height="260" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

This global search matches content from everywhere in the project: dashboard names, field descriptions, table names, saved chart descriptions, etc.

## Exploring data in a chart

### View underlying data in a chart or your results table

You can click on any point on a chart or any cell in a results table and view the records which make up that data point.

For example, I can click on the page views bar in my chart or the value in the results table cell and I'd see all of the rows in the underlying table that make up the 19,120 page views count.

I can then export this as a CSV or explore from this underlying data.

<img src={UnderlyingData} width="1103" height="580" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

#### You can specify which fields are shown when someone clicks on `view underlying data`

By default, we show all of the dimensions from the Table. If you have fields from a joined table included in your results table, then we'll also show you all of the fields from the joined Table. 

If you don't want all of the fields from your Table shown, then you can specify which fields you want users to see when they click on `show underlying data` for a field. 

Check out the [metric](/references/metrics.mdx#show-underlying-values) reference docs to see how to do this in your Table's `.yml` file.

## Exploring data in a dashboard

Dashboards allow you to arrange multiple charts that are related to each other into a single view. 

You can interact with dashboards in your project in a few different ways. [Learn more about it here](/guides/interactive-dashboards.mdx).

## Using "Explore from here" to explore from existing charts

One of the best ways of exploring data is using saved charts and charts in dashboards as the starting point to your data exploration. You can do this in Lightdash using the `Explore from here` button. 

`Explore from here` gives you a copy of the same chart you can play around with. Any changes you make here **will not affect** the original chart - so you can Explore away without any worry of breaking things! 

If you've never used the Explore View, then checkout this tutorial on [using the Explore View in Lightdash](/get-started/exploring-data/using-explores).

<img src={ExploreFromHere} width="1302" height="768" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

## Exploring from scratch with Tables

If you can't find any relevant saved charts or dashboards that answer your question, you can always explore your Tables from scratch. 

To start an Explore view from scratch, just click on `Explore` --> `Tables` --> then select the table that you want to explore. 

If you've never used the Explore View, then checkout this tutorial on [using the Explore View in Lightdash](/get-started/exploring-data/using-explores).

<img src={SelectTable} width="870" height="360" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

Commit message:

docs: update docs with new features (#3666)
* fixes personal access token reference

* adds group and multi pivot docs

* adds metrics filters

* adds section headers

* updates url docs

* adds join usage to joins docs

* adds table for filter examples

docs/docs/guides/exploring-your-content.mdx, after:

import HomeButton from './assets/home-button.png';
import HomePage from './assets/home-page.png';
import BrowseButton from './assets/browse-button.png';
import SearchBar from './assets/search-bar.png';
import ExploreFromHere from './assets/explore-from-here.jpg';
import SelectTable from './assets/select-table.jpg';
import UnderlyingData from './assets/underlying-data.jpg';

# Exploring your content

## Browsing the saved charts and dashboards in your project

The easiest way to get started in Lightdash is to check out the saved charts and dashboards that your team's already made. You can see a list of some of this content on your homepage as soon as you land in Lightdash. 

<img src={HomePage} width="790" height="593" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

You can always get back to your homepage by clicking on the Lightdash icon in the top-left corner of your screen.

<img src={HomeButton} width="416" height="113" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

You can also browse the lists of all of the saved charts, dashboards, and Spaces that you and your teammates have made in your project by clicking on `Browse` in your navbar. 

<img src={BrowseButton} width="412" height="241" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

## Using the search bar

If you already know what you're looking for, then you can use the search bar to search through all of the content in your Lightdash project. Just click on `search` in the navbar, or click `cmd + K` to open the search bar.

<img src={SearchBar} width="980" height="260" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

This global search matches content from everywhere in the project: dashboard names, field descriptions, table names, saved chart descriptions, etc.

## Exploring data in a chart

### View underlying data in a chart or your results table

You can click on any point on a chart or any cell in a results table and view the records which make up that data point.

For example, I can click on the page views bar in my chart or the value in the results table cell and I'd see all of the rows in the underlying table that make up the 19,120 page views count.

I can then export this as a CSV or explore from this underlying data.

<img src={UnderlyingData} width="1103" height="580" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

#### You can specify which fields are shown when someone clicks on `view underlying data`

By default, we show all of the dimensions from the Table. If you have fields from a joined table included in your results table, then we'll also show you all of the fields from the joined Table. 

If you don't want all of the fields from your Table shown, then you can specify which fields you want users to see when they click on `show underlying data` for a field. 

Check out the [metric](/references/metrics.mdx#show-underlying-values) reference docs to see how to do this in your Table's `.yml` file.

By default, when you click `Explore from here` from the `view underlying data` table, you're brought to an Explore view with no fields selected. If you specify fields in `show underlying data`, then these fields will be automatically added to the results table, so users won't `Explore from here` into an empty results table. 

## Exploring data in a dashboard

Dashboards allow you to arrange multiple charts that are related to each other into a single view. 

You can interact with dashboards in your project in a few different ways. [Learn more about it here](/guides/interactive-dashboards.mdx).

## Using "Explore from here" to explore from existing charts

One of the best ways of exploring data is using saved charts and charts in dashboards as the starting point to your data exploration. You can do this in Lightdash using the `Explore from here` button. 

`Explore from here` gives you a copy of the same chart you can play around with. Any changes you make here **will not affect** the original chart - so you can Explore away without any worry of breaking things! 

If you've never used the Explore View, then checkout this tutorial on [using the Explore View in Lightdash](/get-started/exploring-data/using-explores).

<img src={ExploreFromHere} width="1302" height="768" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

## Exploring from scratch with Tables

If you can't find any relevant saved charts or dashboards that answer your question, you can always explore your Tables from scratch. 

To start an Explore view from scratch, just click on `Explore` --> `Tables` --> then select the table that you want to explore. 

If you've never used the Explore View, then checkout this tutorial on [using the Explore View in Lightdash](/get-started/exploring-data/using-explores).

<img src={SelectTable} width="870" height="360" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>
