docs/docs/guides/sharing-in-slack.mdx, before:

import SlackUnfurl from './assets/slack-unfurl.png';
import SlackSettings from './assets/slack-settings.png';
import SlackOauth from './assets/slack-oauth.png';
import SlackApp from './assets/slack-app.png';

# Sharing in Slack

Sharing in Slack allows you to unfurl Lightdash URLs on your Slack workspace.

<img src={SlackUnfurl} width="623" height="208" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

## Adding Slack to your organization

If you want to give slack access to your Lightdash organization, go to `Settings > Slack` and click `Add to Slack` button. 

<img src={SlackSettings} width="623" height="208" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

This will redirect you to an OAUTH page to allow our App to access your Organization. 

Currently we only need the following scopes: 

- [links:read] for `lightdash.cloud` : Links to `lightdash.cloud` will be sent to our App 
so we can make an internal request and fetch information from charts and dashboards so we can later share it in slack.
- [links:write] : This allow us to unfurl the URL previously mentioned. 

No other content will be shared from your workspace. 

<img src={SlackOauth} width="623" height="208" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

That's it 

<img src={SlackApp} width="623" height="208" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>


Once our app has access to your Slack workspace, you can add Lightdash URL links and they will be 
automatically unfurled with your chart or dashboard details.

<img src={SlackUnfurl} width="623" height="208" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

Commit message:

docs: self-hosted share in slack

docs/docs/guides/sharing-in-slack.mdx, after:

import SlackUnfurl from './assets/slack-unfurl.png';
import SlackSettings from './assets/slack-settings.png';
import SlackOauth from './assets/slack-oauth.png';
import SlackApp from './assets/slack-app.png';

# Sharing in Slack

Sharing in Slack allows you to unfurl Lightdash URLs on your Slack workspace.

<img src={SlackUnfurl} width="623" height="208" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

> If you are running a self-hosted Lightdash server, please check [Add Slack integration on self-hosting](https://docs.lightdash.com/guides/sharing-in-slack) first

## Adding Slack to your organization

If you want to give slack access to your Lightdash organization, go to `Settings > Slack` and click `Add to Slack` button. 

<img src={SlackSettings} width="623" height="208" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

This will redirect you to an OAUTH page to allow our App to access your Organization. 

Currently we only need the following scopes: 

- [links:read] for `lightdash.cloud` : Links to `lightdash.cloud` will be sent to our App 
so we can make an internal request and fetch information from charts and dashboards so we can later share it in slack.
- [links:write] : This allow us to unfurl the URL previously mentioned. 

No other content will be shared from your workspace. 

<img src={SlackOauth} width="623" height="208" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>

That's it 

<img src={SlackApp} width="623" height="208" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>


Once our app has access to your Slack workspace, you can add Lightdash URL links and they will be 
automatically unfurled with your chart or dashboard details.

<img src={SlackUnfurl} width="623" height="208" style={{display: "block", margin: "0 auto 20px auto"}}/>
